      Ministry of Defence

      Naval NCC cadets successfully completed Farakka to Prinsep Ghat sailing expedition
      Two more Naval NCC units to be started at Haldia and Murshidabad.

      Posted On: 12 JUN 2018 5:51PM by PIB Kolkata
     1. NCC cadets including 25 girl cadets of Naval unit under West Bengal and Sikkim Directorate successfully reached Man of War Jetty near Prinsep Ghat in Kolkata today (June 12) after setting sail from Farakka and navigating over Ganga river for 430 km in four whaler boats. The young cadets of second battalion of NCC’s naval unit, coming from North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas and Hooghly districts had set out for the expedition on May 25 under leadership of Commanding Officer Captain M Kulsheshtha. The Additional Director General of NCC in West Bengal and Sikkim Major General KD Sreekumar, who felicitated the participants ceremoniously upon their reaching the jetty, stated, Naval NCC unit in West Bengal which is mainly based in Kolkata will start two more units at Haldia and Murshidabad to train up the youngsters in those areas.

    The expedition team made enroute halts at Raghunathgunj, Berhampore, Katwa, Nabadwip, Kalna, Chinsurah, Dakshineswar before reaching their final destination. At all of these abovementioned stopover locations, the expedition team organised social campaigns on Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao, Swachchh Bharat , Open Defecation Free (ODF), Namami Gange and Clean River, tree plantation, environment protection and Save the Tiger. The cadets interacted and exchanged ideas with the local population to raise awareness on these important issues. Their efforts were met with enthusiasm by local population and local media at all places covered by the team, stated Capt M Kulshrestha. The training of cadets for intensive sailing and navigation started from the month of March.

     1. naval expedition organised every year makes the young cadets mentally and physically strong besides developing in them team spirit, camaraderie, swift decision making ability, steadfastness, resilience and a spirit of adventure.

    The dignitaries present in the felicitation ceremony included MLA Smt Debashree Roy.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1535188) Visitor Counter : 88
    
    
    
    
    

1.