      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      ‘Promoting health, happiness, harmony and peace through Yoga’ by Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau, Kolkata International Day of Yoga 2018
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2018 3:18PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, June 20, 2018


    The whole world will be observing International Day of Yoga tomorrow, that is, on June 21, 2018. It has been widely accepted that yoga promotes health, happiness, harmony and peace. On Thursday, various ministries, departments and offices of Central Government as well as autonomous bodies, NGOs and private organizations around the world will be celebrating the goodness of yoga as well as spreading awareness about its immense benefits. Press Information Bureau (PIB), Kolkata and Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB), Kolkata under Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India will also mark the 4 th International Day of Yoga 2018 on June 21 (Thursday) by organising a lecture on ‘Yoga and it benefits’ followed by demonstrations of asanas by members of ‘Art of Living Foundation’ and ‘Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhan Sanstha’. The programme will focus on the theme ‘Yoga For Peace and Harmony’. This will be followed by a performance on yoga and well-being by artists from Song & Drama Division of Union Ministry of I & B. The programme will start with administering of Yoga Pledge by Director General of PIB –Eastern Region, Shri Anil Kumar Saxena at 10 A.M.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will lead the 4th International Yoga Day Celebrations in Dehradun on June 21, 2018. The Prime Minister will join thousands of volunteers, performing Yoga asanas in the lawns of Forest Research Institute, Dehradun, located in the lap of the Himalayas. Greeting Yoga enthusiasts across the world on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that Yoga is one of the most precious gifts given by the ancient Indian sages to humankind. “Yoga is not just a set of exercises that keeps the body fit. It is a passport to health assurance, a key to fitness and wellness. Nor is Yoga only what you practice in the morning. Doing your day-to-day activities with diligence and complete awareness is a form of Yoga as well,” the Prime Minister said. “In a world of excess, Yoga promises restraint and balance. In a world suffering from mental stress, Yoga promises calm. In a distracted world, Yoga helps focus. In a world of fear, Yoga promises hope, strength and courage,” the Prime Minister added. In the run-up to International Yoga Day, the Prime Minister has also taken to social media to share the intricacies of various Yoga Asanas. He has also shared pictures of people performing Yoga, at various locations across the world.


    It may also be recalled that while addressing the 69 th session of United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on September 27, 2014, the Honourable Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi urged the world community to adopt an International Day of Yoga. “Yoga is an invaluable gift of ancient Indian tradition. It embodies unity of mind and body; thought and action; restraint and fulfillment; harmony between man and nature and a holistic approach to health and well-being. Yoga is not about exercise but to discover the sense of oneness with ourselves, the world and Nature. By changing our lifestyle and creating consciousness, it can help us to deal with climate change. Let us work towards adopting an International Yoga Day," Shri Modi said. On December 11, 2014, the 193 member UNGA approved the proposal by consensus with a record 177 co-sponsoring countries a resolution to establish 21 June as "International Day of Yoga". In its resolution, the UNGA recognised that Yoga provides a holistic approach to health and well-being and wider dissemination of information about the benefits of practicing Yoga for the health of the world population.


    In light of the above-stated facts, PIB and ROB in Kolkata through tomorrow’s programme will focus on information dissemination and spreading awareness on a few selected themes related to ‘Yoga’ which is a vast subject.


    ****


    CG/SC/..

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535998) Visitor Counter : 2