      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB and Regional Outreach Bureau Observe 4th International Day of Yoga With Enthusiasm
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2018 5:10PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, June 21, 2018


    Press Information Bureau (PIB) and Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB) comprising Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP), Directorate of Field Publicity (DFP) and Song & Drama Division (S & DD) along with Publications Division observed the 4 th International Day of Yoga today, with gaiety and honour along with the entire country and the world. A function was organised at Salt Lake in the city in this regard. The Director General of PIB, Eastern Region, Shri Anil Saxena was present in that function. He administered the yoga pledge and said, Yoga should be practised everyday in not only home, but in office too in the form of meditation so as to deliver excellently in office jobs. At the same time Yoga provides the calmness of mind which helps to combat all sorts of mental pressure, he reiterated. He said, it was by efforts of India, United Nations took the resolutions and accepted the proposal of making Yoga a Universal subject for practice.


    With this, the members of Art of Living Foundation organised a lecture session along with demonstration of Yogamudras and meditation. Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhan Sanstha also demonstrated Asanas or postures of exercises which was followed by the lively performance on Yoga by registered artistes of S & DD. The DFP officials distributed special T-shirts with the logo of International Day of Yoga inscribed on it. All the officials of PIB, ROB and Publications Division performed Yoga and Asanas along with the instructors of Art of Living and Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhan Sanstha.


    The Prime Minister of India inaugurated the 4 th International Day of Yoga in the lawns of Forest Research Institute, Dehradun in the morning and performed Yoga with more than 50 thousand volunteers and said, Yoga is not only just a set of exercises that keeps the body fit, but it is also a passport to health assurance, a key to fitness and wellness.


    In Kolkata too, the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Culture and Minister of State for Environment, Forest & Climate Change attended another celebration of the day at Shahid Minar.


    ***************


    SSS/21.6.18/......

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536175) Visitor Counter : 3