      Ministry of Culture

      4th International Day of Yoga celebrated with enthusiasm and gusto allover West Bengal
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2018 6:22PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, June 21, 2018


    The 4 TH International Day of Yoga was celebrated with much enthusiasm and gusto at various places throughout West Bengal. Yoga enthusiasts were led by Union Minister of State for Culture (I/C) Dr. Mahesh Sharma in a function organized to celebrate the day at Shaheed Minar in Central Kolkata. Further, different departments of the Central Government, various NGOs, voluntary organizations and other institutions also hailed the International Day of Yoga with demonstrations and discussions on the benefits of yoga.


    The day was observed befittingly over different sections of Eastern Command and the defence arena. A large number of troops, their families and local citizens participated from far flung areas of the East & NE regions to spread the awareness and promote a healthy lifestyle. Notably, INS Netaji Subhas held workshop cum practice yoga sessions by prominent yoga instructors and around 400 Air Warriors participated in the yoga sessions at the Air Force School, Barrackpore. Sixty nine thousand NCC cadets, 80 officers, 350 military personnel, 250 civil staff from West Bengal & Sikkim practised yogasanas under the tutelage of expert yoga teachers. Coast Guard personnel had reached out to the extremities of W. Bengal wherein a special campaign at Frazerganj by the hovercraft squadron demonstrated various asanas & their benefits. The Border Security Force also welcomed the day with yoga activities at their camp in Madhyamgram near Kolkata with all ranks from CISF, SSB and NSG demonstrating asanas together.


    Hundreds of youths and volunteers associated with various youth clubs of Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan patronized this ancient Indian art form on the very day marked by UN every year for it.


    About 300 yoga practitioners in and around Kolkata were also found to participate in asanas demonstrated in the green lawns of Victoria Memorial early in the morning. Enthusiasts were also found to gather in big numbers in camps organized by India Tourism at popular tourist spots like Behrampore, Jhargram, Sittong in Darjeeling and Magurmari in Jalpaiguri.


    Field units of Ministry of Information & Broadcasting had organised workshops with people of all age groups including specially abled persons at Chuchura and Siliguri among other places.


    SSS/SC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1536202) Visitor Counter : 4