      Vice President's Secretariat

      Statistics Enables us to Make Evidence-based Decisions: Vice President
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2018 3:22PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, June 29, 2018


    Statistics enables us to make evidence-based decisions. It gives us an ability to objectively measure a phenomenon. It enables us to examine past trends and make predictions about the future. The Vice – President Shri M Venkaiah Naidu said this here today while delivering on the celebration of 12 th Statistics Day and closing ceremony of 125 th birth anniversary of Professor P C Mahalanobis organised by Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation and Indian Statistical Institute (ISI).


    According to Shri Naidu, Statistics enables us to understand different dimensions of everyday life from education levels to health status, from air quality to water purity, from production to productivity from income to expenditure and the like. Hence, he said, counting and accounting is part of our daily life.


    While speaking on Professor Mahalanobis, Vice President said, along with enriching statistics, Professor Mahalanobis had also introduced the idea of using Statistics as a key tool for national development and social empowerment. With his all encompassing vision, Statistics found numerous applications in the fields of social sciences, biological sciences and earth sciences. He was the first to bring computer to India, thus laying the foundation of fabrication of computers in our country, Shri Naidu added.


    Shri Naidu said, Statistics is the backbone of good governance and it is absolutely essential for planning and indispensible for monitoring and evaluation. He concluded by saying, to improve the quality of life and to make informed choices, we need data, we need statistics, we need tools to analyze and synthesize and as we dream of a new India and are working hard to make it a reality, let us take inspiration from the lives of great Indians who were pathfinders.


    The Vice President released commemorative coins, photo album (Glimpses of the Past), Audio on Professor P C Mahalanobis and Rabindranath Tagore and a brochure on Statistics Day. He even presented Sukhatme Award for 2018 to Professor Rahul Mukherjee, IIM, Kolkata and C R Rao Award for 2018 to Professor Anil Ghose, ISI Kolkata.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri D V Sadananda Gowda, the Union Minister for Statistics and Programme Implementation said, the ISI is popular for high-level research and training Statistics and related disciplines. He added, Statistics Day is a source of inspiration for statisticians of the country. He pointed out the theme for this year’s Statistics Day and said quality assurance in official statistics has been drawing attention internationally for quite some time. He said, the primary aim of official statistics is to provide an accurate, up-to-date, comprehensive and meaningful picture of the society and economy to support the formulation and monitoring of economical and social policies by the Government.


    Present on the occasion were Dr Vijay Kelkar, President, ISI, Professor Goverdhan Mehta, Chairman, ISI Council, Professor Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay, Director ISI, Shri M V S Ranganadham, Director General (ES), Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation and many others.


    *********


    SSS/29.6.18/.....

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537150) Visitor Counter : 1