      Special Service and Features

      National education policy 2020 supports digital knowledge platforms
      Online education emerges as a boon for educational institutions during lockdown

      Posted On: 03 AUG 2020 3:47PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic has forced the educational institutions to indefinite shut down . National education Policy 2020 approved by the Union government recently has many features that strengthen the education system of the country. Among significant features, online and distance education which was meant for teaching students in remote areas, were greatly enhanced.


    The National Education Policy 2020 gives importance to utilising advantages of technology while acknowledging its potential risks and dangers. It had recommended pilot studies to determine the benefits of online and digital education. Already due to the covid 19 pandemic, online education is getting popular. It is comparatively easy to conduct online classes for engineering students as they are well versed with technology and almost all of them are having laptops and smart phones.


    National education policy recommends investing in appropriate existing e-learning platforms such as SWAYAM, DIKSHA and the like. Many educational institutes have already developed their own system to conduct two way video online classes where interaction of students with teachers is possible. In National Institute of Technology, Trichy, study materials such as Power Point presentations, lecture notes are uploaded mainly through institute portal studymaterial.nitt.edu for the benefit of students, according to NIT - T director Dr Mini Shaji Thomas. Students are accessing the study materials using their official email ID credentials from various parts of the country and abroad. The faculty members are conducting online lectures through Video Conferencing. NIT- T is using google drive, google classroom, Email and Whatsapp for online classes. The courses planned by NIT Tiruchirappalli will cater to the needs of the Engineering students across India and the world. The Institute is planning to generate videos of international quality and will utilize the expertise of the faculty available in the NIT system. NIT Trichy is the national coordinator of Swayam which is a programme initiated by government. SWAYAM seeks to bridge the digital divide for students who have hitherto remained untouched by the digital revolution and have not been able to join the mainstream of the knowledge economy.


    SmtJaigeetha Ravi from Thanjavur said that recommendations regarding online education and distance education in new national education policy is a welcome move. She said that online classes especially during covid 19 pandemic time will ensure safety of students. She pointed out that school students who learn through online classes find it easy to attend online classes in college. She said technology has helped to tide over the crisis of covid 19 pandemic but it should reach all sections of the society. Dr.Udhayabanu.R, , Senior Assistant Professor, Dept. of. Forensic Medicine &Toxicology, Govt.Thanjavur Medical college, Thanjavur appreciated the importance given to online classes in National education policy. She said online classes provide benefits of traditional classroom like real time interaction between teacher and students and yet safety of all involved is assured as there is no risk of travel or physical contact. Also, it gives the teacher and students, the convenience of time as classes can now take place at any agreed time. Also, even if someone is slightly unwell, it doesn't mean they miss out on classes as they can attend online classes without the risk of others contracting the ailment. Also this minimises the use of school or college resources, so that the actual maintenance expenditure for schools/colleges are reduced. Smt Uma Balagopal, teacher in a nursery school said that she is taking online classes for her students. She said she sends video lessons to the parents who in turn plays the video for students. But higher classes need interactive sessions for which exclusive smart phones or laptops with internet connection are essential. Teachers also need specialised training to be good online educators. They have to assume that students are sitting in front of the teacher and make it as interesting as possible. For that, the support of family members of the student is essential as they should help students concentrate on studies during online classes.


    New education policy will definitely pave the way for students to excel with world class education and help the nation progress towards greater heights


    Smt Jaigeetha Ravi Thanjavur


    Dr Mini Shaji Thomas Director NITT


    Dr.Udhayabanu.R, MD (FM), Senior Assistant javur Medical college, Thanjavur

    
    
    (Release ID: 1643161) Visitor Counter : 15