      Special Service and Features

      WEBINAR ON WORLD BREASTFEEDING WEEK BY FOB TIRUCHIRAPALLI
      NO POSSIBILITY OF COVID 19 SPREADING THROUGH BREAST FEEDING, IF SANITARY NORMS OBSERVED

      Posted On: 05 AUG 2020 4:40PM by PIB Chennai

    There is only slight chance of covid 19 spreading through breast feeding due to lack of sanitation, according to Smt T Bhuvaneswari, Trichy District Integrated Child development Scheme Programme Officer. She was delivering special address in a webinar on 'nutritional challenges faced by lactating mothers during covid 19 and breast feeding to ensure immunity of child' by Field Outreach Bureau Tiruchirapalli under Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. She pointed out that there should not be any fear that women who are affected by covid 19 should not breast feed. She said that 108 pregnant women who were treated in TrichyGovt Hospital are feeding their babies with breast milk to their infants. Out of that only one child tested positive showing that there is only minimum chance of transmitting covid 19 disease while breastfeeding.


    Shri J Kamaraj Joint Director Regional Outreach Bureau Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in his presidential address stressed the importance of breast milk for infants. He urged field workers to create awareness about breastfeeding to mothers as it is difficult to directly meet mothers directly due to the pandemic lockdown.


    Dr K Amutha, Medical Officer TrichySubramaniyapuram Urban Primary health Centre in her special address said during first six months of the baby exclusive breast feeding is very important. Upto six months mothers should give only breast milk to the baby. She urged everybody to celebrate world breastfeeding week daily so that awareness is created among mothers about importance of breast feeding. She stressed the importance of colostrum which is important for the immunity of baby against disease. She said that technique of giving breast milk and posture is also important and supplementary foods should be given only after six months. She said that she is speaking from Covid 19 medical camp and spoke about the importance of washing hands and keeping safe distance when going to crowded places like markets or shops. When asked about whether a baby of covid 19 patient can be breast fed by another healthy mother, breast milk can be given but it is important to have covid 19 test for that lady also.


    Smt P. UshaRamaniTrichy district mother and child health officer in her special address said that every year awareness rallies are conducted but now through webinars are organised because of the pandemic. She said that the first half to one hour is most important for the baby after birth and initiation to breastfeeding should be done. She pointed out that chances of postpartum hemorrhage will be less if breastfeeding is done. She said that 22 per cent infant mortality rate will come down if breast milk is given to the baby. Colostrum should be given to the baby as it is rich in vitamin A and antibodies. She advised mothers to give breast milk 8 to 10 times in the first 24 hours and once every 2 hours for first seven days. She also asked mothers to make babies urinate and give demand feeding. Nightfeeding is also important for the baby she added. Even breast cancers can be prevented due to breastfeeding and psychological bonding will increase between mother and child.


    Shri K Devi Padmanabhan Field Publicity officer Tiruchirapalli in his introductory speech said that covid 19 pandemic has stressed the importance of immunity to fight diseases. He said that world breastfeeding week is being celebrated from August 1 to 7 every year from 1992 onwards by WHO UNICEF and world alliance for breastfeeding action. This year Support breastfeeding for a healthier planet is the theme. With the whole world affected badly by covid 19 pandemic he urged public to follow the health guidelines and safe distance norms laid out by government and health officials. He pointed out that protein rich and nutritious food like pulses, fruits and leafy vegetables like moringa leaves and spinach should be taken by lactating women. Breast milk will safeguard infants from diseases as it increases immunity. Awareness has to be created among women especially working women about importance of breastfeeding and role of health officials are important. More than 150 persons including lactating mothers attended the webinar and cleared their doubts with medical officer.


    Shri K Ravindran Field Publicity Assistant field Outreach Bureau Tiruchirapalli moderated the programme and rendered vote of thanks. The whole webinar was streamed live in youtube link of Regional Outreach Bureau Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.


    Webinar collage

    
    
    (Release ID: 1643537) Visitor Counter : 15