      Special Service and Features

      SUPPLEMENTARY WATER MANAGEMENT UNDER PM KRISHI SINCHAYI YOJANA GROWING POPULAR AMONG FARMERS
      Rs 7.05 crore allotted for Tiruchirapalli under the scheme

      Posted On: 06 AUG 2020 4:51PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic lockdown reiterates importance of conserving and preserving natural resources. Agriculture has contributed significantly to food security with food grain production enough to feed all during the tough times. Prime Minister’s KrishiSinchayiYojana is being implemented successfully to help the farmers growing theor produce with sufficient water. The Prime Minister KrishiSinchayiYojana was launched in 2015 with the aim of optimal use of water through micro irrigation.


    Pullambady Assistant Director , Agriculture, Shri Mohan said that Supplementary Water Management Activities- SWMA is one of the Flagship Programme Under Pradhan MantriKrishiSinjayiYojana (PMKSY). He said that under this scheme Pullampadi Block OfTrichy District is allotted with Rs 54 Lakhs. This includes 295 SWMA works including 55 sinking Of Borewells at cost of Rs 13.75 Lakhs. Farmers are given 50 per cent Subsidy or Rs.25000. For establishing Diesel Pump or Electric Motor Pump Rs 17.25 lakhs is alloted for 115 beneficiaries with subsidy of Rs 15000 each in the block. Laying of Conveyance Pipes also undertaken costingRs 9 Lakhs with subsidy Rs.10000 each and Concrete / Masonary Structure work is allotedRs 14 Lakhs with 50 per cent subsidy. Rs 7.05 crore is allotted for Trichy District under this scheme.


    Farmers in Trichy say that this scheme is a gift to them as they are heavily dependent on Cauvery water and rain. This is most important Sub Scheme under PMKSY . This Scheme is popular in Trichy District particularly among Pullampadi Block Farmers, says agriculture officials of the block. According to agriculture officials,the scheme had received three times more applications, (701 applications against 295) out of which 90 % applications are approved. 80 % work order already given and more than dozen works completed and Joint Verifications By Agricultural Engineering Department are being carried out .Trichy Joint Director Of Agriculture SmtS.Shanthi inspected SWMA works, digging of Borewells in Malvoi ,andManivel Fields on Wednesday . The agriculture officials team also inspected Concrete/MasonaryStructure .


    The team also inspected Tamil Nadu Mission On Sustainable Dryland Development (TNMSDD) 100 Hectare Cluster at Malvoi, inspected Summer Ploughing works and Farmer Enumeration Progress. Agriculture officials reviewed National Food Security Mission On Pulses ( NFSM Pulses) Rotovator Distribution in Saradamangalam, distributed Greenmanure seed to Farmers Under TN Irrigated Agriculture modernisation project Nandhiyar Sub Basin Farmers at 50 % subsidy. They also distributed Sprayers to Farmers under NFSM ( Pulses). The team led by Joint Director Shanthi included agriculture officials Asst Director Mohan, Agricultue Officer N.Veeramani, Deputy Agriculture Officer Jeganathan .


    Tiruchirapalli is blessed with Cauvery river for irrigation but farmers in many parts of the district are dependent on rain water only. Judicious use of water utilising technology under the motto per drop more crop along with union government schemes like PMKSY will certainly help farmers get better yield and help the nation attain self sufficiency.


    TNMSDD, Summer Ploughing,JDA Trichy inspection@ Malvoi


    Kuruvai SRI ,Alambadi,JDA Trichy inspection


    Collective farming 2019-2020 Farm machinery power weeder purchased demo inspection V.kudalur FPG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1643786) Visitor Counter : 17