      Special Service and Features

      Quit India is a classic example of mass movement urging for Self rule and Self reliance
      Rs 20 lakh crore under Atmanirbhar scheme for realising the vision of Self reliant India

      Posted On: 08 AUG 2020 3:13PM by PIB Chennai

    Field outreach Bureau , Government of India, Madurai organized a webinar on "Let's remember the Quit India Movement and Indian Independence", “Self Employment Training Opportunities, Project Report Submission and Loans for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan” and “Digital Marketing”' on Thursday. The webinar was organized in coordination with the Madurai Nehru Yuva Kendra and Madurai District Integrated Child Development Project Office.


    The programme was presided over by Mr. Kamaraj, I.I.S., Joint Director of Regional Outreach Bureau, Chennai. He said that in the context of economic paralysis due to corona, the Centre has announced Rs 20 lakh crore scheme to create a self-reliant India and even to benefit the vendors on the streets. He pointed out from the Honourable Prime Minister’s speech who urged that it is hightime India becomes Self Reliant in every sector and believed Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme will help realise the vision. Further , Quit India movement is a classic example of Self rule and self reliance and quoted Mahatma Gandhi's clarion call of ' Do or Die' served as a death knell to the British regime forcing them to end the colonial rule in just five years, kamaraj added. He shared a short film on Quit India Movement produced by the Films Division on the occasion.


    Dr T Ravichandran, Gandhian Research Centre of Gandhigram Rural Deemed University, who rendered key note address reiterated importance of Gandhian principles of nonviolence. He stressed how world leaders like Martin Luther King in America, Nelson Mandela of South Africa and of Cesar Chavez Mexico got influenced by Mahatma Gandhiji’s ideals of nonviolence. He pointed out that the French Revolution of 1789 was important in world history, but was mangled with violence, killing nearly 40,000 people. He also mentioned about Chinese Revolution and the Russian Revolution. He said that the Quit India Movement was driven by masses for Indian independence in a non violent way, when incidents of violence were taking place around the world. He also pointed out various events of the Quit India Movement which inspired people to fight for Independence under Gandhian principles. He talked about great freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu like Kodikaatha Kumaran from Tirupur and ThillaiyadiValliyammal from Madurai who joined struggle for people’s rights in South Africa inspired by Mahatma Gandhiji.


    In his special address, Mr. Ravi Kumar, Director, RUDSET, Madurai said that out of the 20 lakh crore rupees announced under the Atmanirbhar Self Reliant India Scheme, nearly 6 lakh crore rupees has been allocated to MSME sector. He said that if the already existing msme unit was affected by the Corona Pandemic, it can borrow from the bank without any security under the Central Government's scheme, for which 3 lakh crore rupees has been made as provision. He said that the weaker industries can get additional loans from Banks for which the Central Govt. is giving partial guarantee through the Guarantee Trust and 20,000 crore rupees has been allocated for this purpose. He said the Non Banking Financial sector had been allocated 30,000 crore and these companies can lend up to 1 lakh rupees. He also explained the free self employment training courses given for both genders through the RUDSET and present opportunities for these courses. He also explained the e-registration of MSME enterprises through Udyam app. He highlighted the Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Scheme, Pradhan Mantri Employment Generation Scheme, NEEDS and Mudra Loan.


    Speaking on the Digital Marketing, Mr. Pandiarajan, Madurai Programme Coordinator for MSME, said that under the present Corona scenario, his Office would help in content creations for selling products through modern digital advertising mode like Twitter, Facebook, Email, WhatsApp, Mobile, Google, Website and 150% Enquiry.


    The seminar was attended by a large number of youth, women ICDS officers and staff members, Journalists, Banking officials, staff of various NGOs, and the general public from Madurai, Theni, Virudhunagar and Dindigul districts. The youtube link of the webinar is attached below.


    Field Publicity Assistant of Field Outreach Bureau, Madurai, Mr. Velmurugan made arrangements for the seminar and gave a welcome address and informed the objective of the programme. Shri K Devi Padmanabhan Field Publicity Officer Tiruchirapalli rendered vote of thanks.


    Youtube link: https://youtu.be/BC4F1JL3yWM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1644369) Visitor Counter : 16