      Special Service and Features

      INTEGRATED AYUSH SYSTEM OF MEDICINE FOUND EFFECTIVE IN TREATING COVID 19 PATIENTS SIDDHA MEDICAL CARE CENTRES TO BE SET UP ALL OVER TAMIL NADU
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2020 3:37PM by PIB Chennai


    Covid 19 pandemic has rekindled the faith in the adage " prevention is better than cure" and the importance of enhancing the natural immunity. UNION Ayush Ministry sent advisories to all state governments regarding holistic approach of AYUSH systems of medicine that focus on prevention of covid19 infection through lifestyle modification, dietary management, and improving immunity. Ayurveda emphasises on avoidance of causative factors and enhancing the immunity while Homoeopathy stresses on preventive factors. Realising the immense support provided by the Indian medicine in treatment and prevention of Covid-19,


    State Health Minister Dr C Vijayabaskar had said that Siddha care centres will be set up in all the districts of Tamil Nadu. He said that more than 75,000 patients have been treated under Ayush medicine systems in the state. Dr S. KamarajTiruchirapalli District Siddha medical officer said that with the approval of Trichy collector, Siddha care centre will be opened in the district within one or two days. He said that Siddha medical care centre was started in Karur and Perambalur each with 200 bed facility. In Ariyalur, 100 bed facility Siddha medical care centre was opened on Friday by government chief whip Shri ThamaraiRajendran and collector Smt D Rathna. Each special medical centre will have one Allopathy doctor one Siddha doctor and 8 health workers including nurses. In the Siddha medical centres Siddha doctors are available for duty on rotation basis. Covid 19 patients are treated in the special medical centres and given nutritious food alongwith Siddha immunity enhancing medicines. They are made to do special yoga exercises for five days. The doctor said that most of the patients are being discharged after seven days of treatment completely cured and healthy. He says that in central districts of Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur and Pudukottai, Siddha medical centres are treating covid 19 patients who are not critically ill. Those with severe symptoms are referred to Government Covid19 facilities. Dr Kamaraj said that all discharged covid 19 patients are given Arogya health kit. This Aarogyapettakam kit includes amukkurachurana tablets, nellikkalehyam and kabasurakudineer packets. Nellikkalehyam should be taken 5 to 10 gm every morning and night. Amukkurachuranam tablets should be given after food twice a day. He advised everybody to take kabasurakudineer by boiling one or two gram kabasurakudineer in 100 ml water . Adults should take 30 ml kabasurakudineer and children should be given 15 ml for a month.


    Increasing immunity is sacrosanct in combating covid 19 pandemic. Integrated system of medicine like ayurveda, siddha have so far proved to be highly effective and this greatly contributed to stop the spread of covid 19 disease. The wisdom of our forefathers have rightly helped our nation more convincingly at a time the whole world is grappling with a pandemic even as the scientists are toiling day and night to find a workable vaccine.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1644380) Visitor Counter : 8
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil