      Special Service and Features

      Ecstasy Pills worth Rs. 1.6 crore from Belgium & Netherlands seized by Chennai Air Customs
      Posted On: 12 AUG 2020 4:53PM by PIB Chennai


    Chennai Air Customs detained twopostal parcelssuspected to contain narcotics substance, which arrived from Belgium and Netherlands at Foreign Post Office, Chennai.


    First suspicious parcel fromBelgium was taken up for examination. On opening it was found to contain artificial leopard fabric and other items. On unwrapping the fabric nine black pouches were found inside.On cut opening the pouches orange colour Ecstasy(MDMA) pills with marking “Red Buli” and “Heineke” were found concealed inside.Total 4060 ecstasy pills valued at Rs. 1.2 crore were recovered and seized under the NDPS Act, 1985.The parcel was addressed to a person in a village in Kancheepuram District. As a follow up action search was carried out at theconsignee addresswhich was found to be fake.


    The second parcel from Netherlandwastaken up for examination. On opening it was found to contain Inflatable pool, snack and gummy bear packets etc. On cut opening these packets skull shaped ecstasy pills with marking “MYBRAND” were found concealed inside.Further two pouches containing MDMA crystals and Methaqualone powderwerefound concealed inside the inflatable pool. Total 1150 ecstasy pills, 100 grams of MDMA crystalsand 1 gram of Methaqualone powder valued at Rs. 45lakhs were recovered and seized under the NDPS Act, 1985.The parcel was addressed to a person in Andhra Pradesh. As a follow up action, search was carried out at the address and it was found linked to a person who hadalready been arrested in an offence of drug smugglingby Chennai Air Customs.


    Total 5210ecstasy pills, 100 grams of MDMA crystalsand 1 gram of Methaqualone valued at Rs1.65 crorewere recovered and seized under the NDPS Act, 1985.


    Further investigation is in progress, according to a press release issued by the Commissioner of Customs, Chennai International Airport, Chennai.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1645352) Visitor Counter : 9