      Special Service and Features

      INDEPENDENCE DAY CELEBRATIONS IN V.O.CHIDAMBARANAR PORT TRUST
      Posted On: 15 AUG 2020 3:04PM by PIB Chennai


    Independence Day has been celebrated by V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust in a grand manner in-front of Administrative Office Building at 09:00 hrs. on 15.08.2020.


    The celebrations to mark the 74th Independence Day of India commenced with the hoisting of the National Flag by Shri T.K. Ramachandran, IAS., Chairman, V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust. Thereafter, he took salute from CISF.


    In his Independence Day message, the Chairman recalled the struggles and sufferings of the forefathers and patriots who had contributed to attain freedom for our Nation and requested all to contribute their mite to take the nation to achieve economic development. He also congratulated all the Trustees, Port users, Union Leaders, Employees, District Administration, and all stakeholders for helping the Port to handle 10.57 Million Tonnes of cargo during this current financial year up July 2019.


    He also stated that Ministry of Shipping is proactively working towards achieving 'Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ by promoting ‘Port-led industries’ and attaining self-reliance in Port infrastructure development. Based on the above, VOC Port has earmarked 1689 acres of land for development of Port based industries. Diverse industrial firms from fertilizers, petrochemicals, edible oil, LNG and Wind blade segments have expressed their interest to setup industries in Port’s land. The Port also has expeditious plans to transform VOC Port as a ‘Transshipment hub’ in 4 phases at a total cost of Rs.7000 Crores.


    All the Officers and Staff who rendered meritorious service during this ongoing COVID Pandemic were appreciated by giving standing ovation. Shri T.K. Ramachandran, IAS., Chairman, also released the COVID Manual of VOC Port. Shri Bimal Kumar Jha, Deputy Chairman, received the first copy from the Chairman.


    In view if the COVID-19 pandemic, preventive measures such as maintaining social distancing, wearing of masks and proper sanitization of the venue, as prescribed and recommended by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare & such guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India were strictly adhered during the entire event.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1646073) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil