      Special Service and Features

      PRIME MINISTER ANNOUNCES NATIONAL DIGITAL HEALTH MISSION TO ENSURE HEALTH SERVICES FOR ALL
      Posted On: 17 AUG 2020 5:12PM by PIB Chennai


    Honourable Prime Minister’s announcement of National Digital health Mission on Independence Day has raised hopes of accessible medical services for all citizens of the country. Covid 19 pandemic has put hospitals and health officials under heavy stress with millions testing positive. However the medical fraternity had taken up the challenge valiantly and have reduced the fatality rates drastically making the death rate much lower than many developed countries. The union government in an effort to provide quality health care is implementing Pradhan Mantri Jan arogya yojana- Ayushman Bharat scheme providing free health care to almost half the population of the country. Now our Prime Minister has noted that the new National digital health mission will usher in a new revolution in Health Sector. Under this scheme, Health ID will be given to every Indian. This health account will contain details of every test, every disease, the doctors visited, the medicines taken and the diagnosis. This information will be very useful as it is portable and easily accessible even if the patient shifts to new place and visits a new doctor. National digital health mission is holistic, voluntary healthcare programme which will integrate doctors, hospitals, pharmacies, insurance companies and make a digital health infrastructure. The health ID card is created with details like Aadhar and mobile number and generate unique ID for each individual. The national digital health mission includes health ID, digidoctor, telemedicine, ePharmacy , healthcare registry and personal health records digitally stored.


    Smt Jaigeetha from Tiruchirapalli says the health card system will be very useful for many patients. She says that there should be reforms in health care system and the announcement by Prime Minister is a welcome move. Poor people are not getting good medical care and it is necessary to set up AIIMS like medical institutes in every district so that villagers don’t have to travel much to get good health care.


    The health insurance schemes, esanjeevani, Jan Oushadhi implemented by government help the beneficiaries with assured health service. The health assurance scheme PMJAY started by Prime Minister in 2018 has been a boon to people especially in the times of covid 19. The Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna is perhaps the largest health assurance scheme in the world which ensures providing a health cover of Rs. 5 lakhs per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization. PM-JAY is shared between the Central and State Governments. In Tamil Nadu, Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana-Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme provide cashless hospitalization facility for certain specified ailments by giving coverage of up to Rs.5,00,000 per family per year.


    Health service sector is most crucial especially during a pandemic outbreak. The medical services are made accessible to poor and rural people through teleconsultancy by government. eSanjeevani scheme is getting popular during covid 19 lockdown as people are not able to travel to hospitals and doctors are busy treating covid 19 patients. Digital healthcards will help doctors treat patients with their past medical history accessible. This indeed will revolutionise the health care system of our country and will bring cheers to the poor and disadvantaged.


    National digital health mission


    Partnering with citizens in creating a


    digital Health Ecosystem


    Smt.Jaigeetha with Health Insurance card


    

    
    (Release ID: 1646461) Visitor Counter : 154