      Special Service and Features

      SHG LOANS HELP RURAL HOUSEHOLDS TIDE OVER JOB LOSS CRISIS
      
      66 lakhs SHGs across the country cover more than 7.14 crore rural women
      
      Posted On: 22 AUG 2020 4:17PM by PIB Chennai


    Rural women are shining examples of resilience and had shown the way forward during Covid 19 pandemic lockdown. The Self help group women especially in rural areas utilised the loans provided by government as a majority of them are daily wage earners and rendered jobless. Union Finance Minister had announced collateral free loan upto Rs 20 lakh for women self help groups earlier to tide over financial crisis inflicted by lockdown. There are more than 66 lakhs SHG groups covering more than 7.14 crore rural women in India. The SHGs have been formed under Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana and National Rural livelihood Mission according to Union Rural development Ministry.


    Rs 12 crore loan has been targeted to be given to eligible 1500 Self help groups in the four districts of Tiruchirapalli, Perambalur, Karur and Ariyalur. Each SHG group can apply for loan from Rs 25000 to one lakh. Eligible SHG groups can apply for the loan facility from the nearby banks in government sector. In Trichy district, there are 39 cooperative bank branches, 147 primary agriculture cooperative credit societies and in Perambalur, there are 10 bank branches and 53 primary agri cooperative credit societies. In Karur there are 15 bank branches and 84 primary agriculture cooperative credit societies and in Ariyalur there are 9 bank branches and 64 primary agriculture cooperative credit societies. There are 4520 SHGs and 16030 groups under primary agriculture cooperative credit societies in the four central districts of Trichy Perambalur Aruyalur and Karur.


    Ten SHG groups join together to form SHG group consortium in each village. In Karur district Kulithalai Panchayat Union, Rs 1.21 crore loan is given to 27 such SHG group consortiums with Rs 4.50 lakh each under the scheme. In Karur district for 130 SHG societies in 8 blocks under Amutha Surabhi scheme Rs 8 lakhs to Rs 14 lakhs loan is given for each society. Till now Rs 15.57 crore has been disbursed as Amutha Surabhi loan in Karur district according to district administration. With this loan, SHG members can buy cows, goats, or start vegetable trade, vehicle repair, making pickles, garments, napkin, farm labour, and open petty shops.


    Earlier in May this year Rs 5000 loan assistance was given to each SHG member upto Rs one lakh for each SHG to help women members affected by Covid 19 pandemic. The government had announced moratorium for six months to repay the loan. After six months the loan should be paid within 24 months to 36 months period. Additionally gold loan at 7 per cent interest upto Rs one lakh loan is also given which should be paid back in six months.


    Smt Indira Devi Karur Kulithalai Mahalir thitta social coordinator says there are 100 SHGs under her jurisdiction. She said a special SHG group with widows alone is formed and loans are disbursed through Indian Bank. Smt Devi from Renganathapuram Perambalur thanked govt for offering loans through SHGs without any collateral. She is saying that it is very useful as she is not having any job during covid 19 lockdown.


    Smt Devi Perambalur


    Credit assistance is needed for families to overcome financial problems as there is no income especially for daily wagers. Till they get regular jobs, government credit assistance and other aids announced under PM Atma Nirbhar abhiyan are offering a much needed relief for the rural poor.


    Smt Indira Devi Karur

    
    
    (Release ID: 1647880) Visitor Counter : 8
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil