      Special Service and Features

      Vaccines are the ray of hope in fight against Covid-19, say Covaxin investigators
      Posted On: 20 AUG 2020 5:20PM by PIB Chennai


    Experts from SRM Medical College Hospital & Research Centre, Chennai, which is one of the 12 institutions chosen by the Indian Council of Medical Research to conduct the trials for the vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and the National Institute of Virology, today said vaccine development is the ray of hope in the fight against Covid-19.


    They were speaking at a webinar / virtual conference on ‘Covid-19 Vaccines- Looking for a silver lining', organised by Government of India, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau.


    Shri S. Venkateswar, IIS, Director General, South Zone, delivered the welcome address. The discussion was moderated by Shri Gurubabu Balaraman, IIS, Director, Press Information Bureau, Chennai.


    Presentations were made by Dr Satyajit Mohapatra, Professor, Department of Pharmacology in SRM Medical College, who is the Principal Investigator of Covaxin study in SRM and Dr Melvin George, Associate Professor, Department of Clinical Pharmacology, SRM Medical College Hospital & Research Centre and the Co-Investigator of Covaxin study at SRM, where human clinical trials of the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine-Covaxin are underway since July.


    Dr Satyajit, speaking on the development and trials of the vaccine, said, “In phase one, the criteria for selection of volunteers for the trails was: they should be in 18-55 years of age and in good health, and other specifications were for heart beat, blood pressure, temperature, medical history and negative for Covid.”


    In the phase two criteria, volunteers in the age group of 12 to 65 with good health, specified heart rate, blood pressure, oral temperature, medical history and physical examination were selected. On the summary of the trail, he said, “The study is designed to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity, tolerability and immunogenicity of healthy volunteers who receive two intramuscular doses of BBV152 vaccine formulations.”


    The total sample size is 1,125 healthy volunteers, with 375 volunteers in the phase one study and 750 volunteers in phase two study.


    Dr Melvin George, while explaining the various phases of trials of a vaccine development, said that the time taken is usually seven to 17 years, but for the Covid-19 pandemic, they have taken the accelerated path by merging some phases taking into account all safety regulations. So how is a vaccine being developed by not following the traditional route? Dr Melvin said that by hastening the process, the approval timelines are shortened, animal testing requirements reduced, the manufacturing and scaling is advanced and there is proactive government facilitating. At the same time, enough care is being taken at each and every step to ensure that things don’t go wrong.


    He said that some pharma giants are sharing technology with other smaller generic companies so that they could step up production of the vaccine to ensure that it reaches the people in shortest possible time once necessary approvals are given.


    Professor, Lt. Col. Dr. A. Ravikumar, Pro-Vice Chancellor, Medical and Health Sciences, SRM Institute of Science and Technology delivered the presidential address and Prof. Dr. A. Sundaram, Dean (Medical), SRM Medical College Hospital & Research Centre delivered the inaugural address.


    Shri. J. Kamaraj, IIS, Joint Director, ROB, Chennai, thanked the participants of the webinar for their valuable insights and information.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1647317) Visitor Counter : 6