      Special Service and Features

      Due respect and recognition reduces elderly people’s psychological complications: Dr. P. Sethurajakumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Sociology
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2020 7:07PM by PIB Chennai


    “The various problems faced by the elderly people are increasing day by day and providing them emotional support and moral care is essential”, said Dr. P. Sethurajakumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Sociology, Periyar University, Salem, today, during a webinar, jointly conducted by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting’s Field Outreach Bureau, Salem and Press Information Bureau, Chennai.


    Delivering his key note address on the topic, “Elderly care during COVID 19”, Dr. Sethurajakumar said that the social recognition of the elderly people is reducing due to the attitude of youngsters and the society at large. “In India, elders are prone to not only physical problems like ailment and other health related complications, but also economic factors especially those who are below the poverty line and those who are disabled. In addition to this, psychological issues like feeling isolated, inferior and social causes like generation gap, loss of respect are other common problems of elderly citizens”, he said.


    He further stated that it is imperative for the elders to keep themselves active during the pandemic situation. “Spending time with family reduces aging problem and the elders can involve in routine activities like cooking, gardening, which will keep them away from boredom”, he said. With the dawn of digital era, elders can use the social media for connecting with their near and dear ones who are apart due to the lockdown through video calls and phone, he suggested.


    Dr. Sethurajakumar insisted that the senior citizens avoid sensational news stories and rumours which merely increase their anxiety. It is equally important for them to take proper diet and elders should ensure that they take plenty of fruits and vegetables and reduce the intake of non-vegetarian food in order to increase the immunity, he said.


    As far as the role of family members in taking care of the elderly people at home is concerned, he said that elders are like children and it is important to fulfil their needs and wants, just as we cater to the requirements of children. Abuse of elders in physical or oral form should never be encouraged and those elders who are in distress may contact the Senior citizen helpline through 1091 or 1291. It is important that the family members should have adequate knowledge about the nature of the elders’ ailment and chronic diseases and the care to be provided for the complications. Not only physical, but the mental health should also be given equal priority when it comes to senior citizens, he added.


    Dr. M. Jayaseelan, Assistant Professor, Department of Sociology, Periyar University, Salem, spoke about Family Relationships. He said that in India, family is perceived as an Institution, unlike Western culture, where it is a mere Association. “India’s identity is family and though it is structurally neutral, it is functionally joint, considering that fact that any decision is taken in consultation with the family members”.


    He stated that due to the lockdown, there have been various challenges faced in the family front like increased work for women, sharing of time and space for work and home, difference of opinion among family members, unhealthy sleeping patterns due to increased screen time and stress caused due to social isolation.


    “However there are more opportunities that we have gained due to the lockdown as well. It has united the family members and has given us quality time with our family”, he said. The lockdown has further given us an opportunity for us to sit with our family and have dinner, during when we get to have conversation through which we know each others’ likes and dislikes. Homemade healthy food is given priority which refreshes both body and mind. We have also started introspecting ourselves by understanding what we like and how productively we can spend time, he added.


    “It is important that we accept the quality of the family members and give space to them. We can be assertive, but not aggressive. On the whole, the lockdown has increased family bonding”, he stated.


    During his introductory address, Mr. Gurubabu Balaraman, Director, Press Information Bureau, Chennai said that elderly people at home are precious. A person’s role in the family cannot be replaced, unlike the role of the professional. Though the lockdown has thrown many challenges, it has taught us human value and importance of relationship. Family can be considered as the seat belt which protects us in moments of troubles and disturbances, he said.


    Mr. Kamaraj, Joint Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Chennai, in his welcome address said that the pandemic situation has posed a great challenge for the human community. He recalled Swami Vivekananda’s speech at the Parliament of World’s Religions where he enlightened the world about India’s rich culture and tradition and the importance given for family in India. Post this speech, Swami Vivekananda and the culture and tradition of India attained immense popularity. Unlike Western culture, Indian society gives priority to family, which indeed is our identity.


    Mr. S. Murali, Field Publicity Officer, Field Outreach Bureau, Salem, delivered the vote of thanks.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648268) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil