      Special Service and Features

      PM JAN DHAN ACCOUNT GIVES FINANCIAL EMPOWERMENT
      PRIME MINISTER SAYS RS 30,000 CRORE DEPOSITED IN WOMEN JAN DHAN ACCOUNTS

      Posted On: 27 AUG 2020 3:09PM by PIB Chennai

    PM Jan Dhan Yojana launched by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on August 28, 2014 is completing six years on Friday. Prime Minister in his Independence Day speech had said that out of 40.35 crore Jan Dhan accounts, 22 crore belong to women beneficiaries. He said that Rs 30,000 crore was deposited in the women Jan Dhan accounts during Covid 19 pandemic lockdown. Rs 500 each every month was deposited in the account of women Jan Dhan account holders as cash assistance during covid 19. The lockdown led to loss of jobs especially daily wagers and union government had announced plethora of measures under PM Atma Nirbhar scheme including cash assistance, free ration including food grains, groceries and credit assistance.


    PM Jan Dhan account scheme was started aiming at giving financial empowerment to all citizens. More than 40 crore Jan Dhan account holders are having Rs 130,701 crore in theiraccounts. There are more than 1.26 lakh Bank correspondents are involved in offering branchless banking services especially in rural areas. The target of the Jan Dhan scheme is to start one basic savings bank account for everybody. Zero balance accounts with no requirement to maintain any minimum balance in PMJDY accounts is the attraction. Interest is earned on the deposit in PMJDY accounts and Rupay Debit card is provided to PMJDY account holder. An overdraft facility up to Rs. 10,000 to eligible account holders is available. PMJDY accounts are eligible for Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Atal Pendion Yojana (APY), Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency Bank (MUDRA) scheme.


    In Tamil Nadu 10,820,801 beneficiaries are there under PM Jan Dhan scheme and there is a balance of Rs 2809 crore in Jan Dhan accounts. Cash assistance of Rs 500 in women Jan Dhan accounts during covid 19 pandemic has been welcomed. Women beneficiaries demanded more cash assistance as they lost steady income without daily work due to lockdown. Smt. Seethalakshmi, from Thayanur, Smt Revathy from Allithurai Trichy say that they got Rs 500 under PM Jandhan scheme. Beneficiaries like Razia Beegum urge government to give higher cash assistance of Rs 2000 during covid 19 pandemic period.


    PM Jan Dhan yojana which has crossed six years since its inception has been very beneficial especially for women account holders. In rural households women manage the house economy and cash in hand definitely help them to manage their livelihood. With the situation improving and unlock period leading to normalising of economic activities, rural households hope to be employed again and will fight back the pandemic and lockdown issues with the helping hand offered by the Government.


    Razia Beegum Karur


    PM Jan Dhan logo


    Seethalakshmi Thayanur Trichy

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648931) Visitor Counter : 9