      Special Service and Features

      VANDE BHARAT MISSION BRINGS 11.7 LAKH INDIANS BACK HOME INCLUDING STRANDED WORKERS
      Governments operate special schemes to help jobless labourers who returned home

      Posted On: 25 AUG 2020 2:27PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic lockdown announced in different countries to prevent spread of disease had stranded many Indians abroad. Many were left worried especially in the Gulf nations as they want to be with their family back home during pandemic times. Many labourers lost their jobs and Vande Bharat Mission helped them reach motherland safely.


    Vande Bharat Mission was started on May 7 by Union Government to repatriate Indians stranded abroad and to transport people from other countries stranded in India due to covid 19 lockdown . The Sixth Phase of Vande Bharat Mission will start from September 1 and continue till October 24 according to Union Civil aviation Minister. The fifth phase which began from August 1 will end by August 31. More than 766 flights have been scheduled from various destinations like Sharjah, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Bangkok, Colombo, Dares Salam, Riyadh to Indian cities. Under Vande Bharat Mission 11.70 lakh Indians stranded abroad in various countries due to covid 19 pandemic have been flown in through special flights since May 6 this year. Similarly more than 1.66 lakh people stranded in India due to lock down have been flown out to their home countries. Air India Express took 158 passengers from Tiruchirapalli to Dubai under Vande Bharat Mission on Monday.


    The first phase of Vande Bharat started on May 7 lasted till May 17 with 84 services from between India and various countries like the US, UK, UAE, Philippines, Saudi Arabia , Malaysia. The second phase of Vande Bharat Mission was started on May 16 and was extended till June 13. The third phase started from June 10 lasted till June 22 with more than 130 flight services from various countries like Singapore , UAE Saudi Arabia Qatar to India. The fourth phase of Vande Bharat started on July 1. In Vande Bharat Mission Phase V, Air India Express is operating special flights between Tiruchirapalli and Singapore on August 25, 26, 28, 30 and 31. Air India Express has also scheduled repatriation flight under Vande Bharat Mission in Trichy - Kuwait sector on August 29. The special flight will leave Tiruchirapalli on Saturday at 11.05 AM and reach Kuwait at 1.55 PM. In the return direction it will leave Kuwait at 2.55 PM and reach Tiruchirapalli at 10.40 PM.


    Moreover under Vande Bharat VI, Singapore- Trichy flights will be operated by Air India Express on September 2 and 3. The flight will leave Singapore at 7 PM and reach Tiruchirapalli at 8.45 PM on these days. Apart from Tiruchirapalli, Air India Express is also operating special Vande Bharat flights to Chennai, Madurai, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bengaluru, Kochi. Tiruchirapalli international airport has handled more than 120 rescue flights under Vande Bharat Mission and brought home more than 20,000 passengers stranded in other countries. Special flights are being operated between Trichy and Kuala Lumpur, Singapore, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Sharjah, Doha, Riyadh, Dammam, and Jeddah. There are many Indians who continue to stay in the Gulf and continue their work. Shri Sudhi who is a civil engineer in a Gulf nation says that construction works are continuing without much hindrance. He says that there was initial panic because of covid 19 pandemic news and many labourers left for India but now the situation is normal. There are many Indians who have returned from the Gulf nations and government is helping them to begin start ups under PM Atma Nirbhar Scheme. Vande Bharat Mission aims at bringing back those Indians who toiled abroad for their family. Now Government is giving credit assistance for returning labourers to start some business or trade for securing their livelihood.


    Air India Express flight


    Trichy Kuwait

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648446) Visitor Counter : 28