      Special Service and Features

      Textiles Grand Challenge (TGC) 2019
      Posted On: 28 AUG 2020 11:18AM by PIB Chennai


    Textiles Grand Challenge 2019, an initiative towards “Atmanirbhar Bharat” and “make in India”, under which Alternatives to Single USE Plastic B a gs and Multi-Use Plastic Bags, developed using domestically grown natural fibres viz: Jute and Cotton, was organized by Jute Division, Ministry of Textiles, Govt. of India, in association with the Start Up India Team of the Ministry of Industries & Commerce, Govt. of India and the Award Distribution ceremony was organized on 27th Aug’20.


    The ideas so developed are unique and innovative using jute bio-mass, jute starch based bio-polymer and cotton waste fibres to manufacture non-woven carry bags which low-weight, low-cost and sturdy to carry grocery and shopped items. The cost of such bags ranges from Rs. 0.60 to Rs. 10 each, which is really a revolution in carry/shopping bags segment.”


    Award of Prizes and Certificates were given as per the following details :

     1. M/s. Awega Green Technologies, Pune, Maharastra, 1 st Prize of Rs.3.00 Lakhs, under the “Single Use Category”
     2. M/s. Sakthi Nonwovens, Erode, Tamilnadu, 2 nd Prize, of Rs.2.00 Lakhs, under the “Single Use category” &
     3. M/s.Dhriti Bio Solutions, Mysuru, Karnataka, 1 st Prize of Rs.3.00 Lakhs, under the Mutiple Use Category”

    The Award Distribution Ceremony was organized on 27 th Aug’20, through, “Video Conferencing” at Delhi, and simultaneously at Chennai, Mumbai & Mysuru.


    Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani, Hon’ble Union Minister for Textiles and Women & Child Development, Govt. of India, was the Chief Guest of the Function. She appreciated the efforts of the Award Winners and also provided Words of Encouragement to the Grand Textiles Challenge’s participants & Industry stalwarts for incubation of the new start ups by the Industry.


    Felicitation of Award and Cheque to Mr. Vijaya Kumar S., Proprietor, M/s Sakthi Nonwovens , Tamilnadu, was provided by Shri T. Ayyappan, Deputy Director, National Jute Board, through Video Conferencing, according to a press release issued by the National Jute Board Chennai Regional Office.


    TGC - On Dias


    TGC - Cheque (D) Distribution to Sakthi Nonwovens

    
    
    (Release ID: 1649137) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
    
    
    

3.