      Special Service and Features

      TAMIL NADU TOPS IN e-SANJEEVANI OPD CONSULTATIONS
      Posted On: 20 AUG 2020 2:52PM by PIB Chennai


    Covid 19 pandemic has opened up new vistas for teleconsultancy and telemedicines and Digital India campaign has received big thumbs up in the difficult times of minimal one to one contact. Realising the importance of providing essential medical care to the needy, Union health ministry had launched eSanjeevaniopd consultation facility to consult doctors online from the comfort of the drawing room. The facility became a instant hit among the people who preferred to stay safe at home as well as consult a doctor for health issues. So far among the states, Tamil Nadu has topped eSanjeevani OPD consultations with more than 56,000 consultations. All over the country more than 2 lakh consultations have been registered in eSanjeevani according to Health Ministry. This has been a boon to patients especially in rural and remote areas with good internet connection or a Computer service centre.


    For eSanjeevani service https://www.esanjeevaniopd.in has to be entered in google chrome or yahoo search.The following are the steps to be followed for consultation: 1. Click the Patient Registration button and enter mobile number and click the Send OTP button to receive an OTP via SMS. 2. Enter the OTP that received into the Patient Registration dialog and click OK. The Patient Registration and Token Generation dialog displays. 3. Fill all the required fields that are marked with a red asterisk * symbol. 4. All health records including XRays, blood test, lipid test, urine test results should be uploaded, if any . 5. Click the Generate Patient ID & Token button. 6. Then log in , and get added to a queue of patients in the virtual consultation room. 7. Wait for the turn and let the Call Now button to get activated once a doctor is available. 8. Click on Call Now, a dialog will pop-up, prompting to allow access to the camera and the microphone of the laptop or smart phone. 9. Click Allow/Accept. 10. Once the doctor answers your call, interact with the doctor using the microphone on your device. Once the doctor has successfully completed evaluation, telemedicine session will end and a prescription will be issued by the doctor. The link to view your prescription is also sent to registered mobile phone.11. You can print this prescription for your records using the Print button.


    In Tamil Nadu, eSanjeevani OPD timings are : General OPD will be from 08:00 AM to 08:00 PM every day. Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) OPD: Monday to Saturday: 09:00 AM to 01:00 PM, TB Medicine OPD: Monday to Saturday : 09: 00 AM to 01:00 PM, Obstetrics and gynaecology OPD Monday to Friday : 11:00 AM to 03:00 PM. Health officials said that eSanjeevanionline registration is very simple and hence the popularity . The major steps involved are Patient Registration, token Generation, Queue Management, Audio-Video Consultation with a Doctor, ePrescription. He said that it is a completely free service and consulted by State service doctors also. SmtShanthi from Tiruchirapalli said that eSanjeevani is very useful especially during Covid 19 pandemic time. It is very risky to go to hospitals nowadays because there is chance of getting infected. Teleconsultancy is very useful and risk free especially to clear medical doubts and if there is an emergency one can go to hospital. This will be helpful for preliminary first aid and especially for old patients.


    eSanjeevani is getting popular all over India with more than 2 lakh OPD consultations. With Covid 19 pandemic spreading ,eSanjeevani system of teleconsultancy is going to be more beneficial for patients especially for those who don’t get easy access to hospitals. Union government's Digital India push has yielded great results and its utility in quality health care through eSanjeevani and other services is a dream come true for millions with accessibility difficulties during pandemic period.


    eSanjeevani registration


    eSanjeevani OPD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1651257) Visitor Counter : 15
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil