      Special Service and Features

      “Government's job portal, a boon for employers and candidates”: Ms. A. Latha, Regional Joint Director, Employment and Training, Coimbatore
      Posted On: 04 AUG 2020 6:57PM by PIB Chennai


    "At this time of pandemic situation, the state government's online portal tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.in is a platform where industries and those who are in search of job can register and find suitable employees and company", said Ms. A. Latha, Regional Joint Director, Employment and Training, Coimbatore during a webinar organised by the Field Outreach Bureau, Salem, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, on the topic Skill development- MSME loans.


    Around 39 thousand candidates looking for various jobs have registered in the web portal which was launched last month, she said. “The number of vacancies is more than the number of candidates registered. The industries are desperately in need of manpower as most of the migrant workers have returned to their home town. For the job seekers this portal will be a boon as they get an opportunity for a job in the vicinity of their home”, added Ms. Latha.


    In order to avoid any problems that might arise due to the involvement of job consultancies and agencies, the government of Tamilnadu permits only genuine employers register in the portal. To ensure authenticity, all the particulars regarding the industry must be filled in properly, she insisted.


    Though there are over 10 thousand industries functioning in the state, only around 766 of them have registered and Ms. Latha called the remaining industries as well to utilise the job portal for identifying suitable employees. In addition, the Department of Employment organises skill training programmes for Non Residential Tamils and assured that the Government is taking all possible efforts for the welfare of the people and to provide financial assistance during the current crisis situation.


    During his address, Mr. D. Sivakumar, General Manager, District Industries Centre, Salem, elaborated on the various schemes of the Central and State Government regarding the MSME loans. He said that under the Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme (UYEGP), ten lakh rupees is allotted for manufacturing sector, while 5 lakh rupees for service unit. People who have passed 8th standard and are below 45 years (Special category) and 35 years (General) are eligible for applying for the loan.


    The Central Government’s scheme- Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) offers 25 lakh rupees for manufacturing sector and 10 lakh rupees for service sector. The Government provides subsidy amount of 25% for urban and 35% for rural areas, he said.


    “Those who seek more than 25 lakh rupees for their business, can make use of Tamilnadu Government’s New Entrepreneur-Cum-Enterprise Development Scheme (NEEDS), which offers up to 5 crore rupees. This scheme is meant only for first generation entrepreneur. A person who has completed Degree/ Diploma/ ITI is eligible to apply under NEEDS. While the age limit is 45 years for Special category and 35 years for General category, the subsidy is 25% or 30 lakh rupees, whichever is less”, said Mr. Sivakumar.


    Loan application under all the above mentioned schemes can be done online free of cost, which requires only basic documents. The loan applications will be sent to the banks and once the bank approves it, the subsidy amount will be credited to the account, he added.


    Mr. Sivakumar further enlightened the participants about the state Government’s Single Window Portal, easybusiness.tn.gov.in/ . To avoid procedural delays in getting statutory clearances from various authorities, this portal was launched through which approvals from different departments can be obtained at the ease of submitting required documents online.


    Dr. V. Karthikeyan, Principal, Thiagarajar Polytechnic College, Salem, spoke about the importance given by the college for skill development courses. “During the lockdown, students have shown keen interest in learning skill oriented courses like Python, C++, Tally etc through online. With the success of these online courses, the college also has plans to create virtual labs and classrooms in order to give practical training”, he said.


    Dr. K. Karlin Ebe, President, Jenny’s Educational Trust, Salem, also spoke about the importance of skill courses.


    In his presidential address, Mr. J. Kamaraj, Joint Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Chennai said that the Central and State Governments are striving hard in order to uplift the poor and downtrodden during the present financial crisis. As per Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan, an initiative by the Centre Government, 20 lakh rupees is allotted for MSME, through which common man, including street vendors, will highly benefit, he added.


    Earlier, Mr. S. Murali, Field Publicity Officer, Field Outreach Bureau, Salem, delivered the welcome address and Mr. P.T. Palaniappan, Field Publicity Assistant, Field Outreach Bureau, Salem rendered the vote of thanks.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1651227) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil