      Special Service and Features

      NATIONAL DIGITAL HEALTH MISSION LAUNCHED BY PRIME MINISTER TO REVOLUTIONISE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
      Posted On: 19 AUG 2020 1:49PM by PIB Chennai


    Health card system announced by Prime Minister as part of national digital health mission is going to revolutionise health care in India. This was stressed in a Webinar on importance of breastfeeding for immunity of child and Quit India Movement Freedom struggle, organised by Field Outreach Bureau Tiruchirapalli under Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in coordination with Integrated child development scheme , Deputy Director Health Services Perambalur.


    Shri J Kamaraj in his presidential address said that Perambalur district has done well in controlling spread of covid 19 with just one thousand positive cases, being the least case load district, when the case load in Tamil Nadu is nearing 3.5 lakhs. He praised the work of Integrated child development scheme ICDS workers alongwith health officials in the district in putting up an effective fight in control covid 19. He pointed out the announcements including launch of Health cards by Prime Minister on Independence Day as it will revolutionise health care system in the country. He spoke about importance of remembering the sacrifices of freedom fighters to achieve laurels in ones own life. Quit India movement had made the freedom struggle into a people’s movement on the call of Gandhiji culminating in the Indian independence , he added.


    Shri K Devi Padmanabhan, Field Publicity Officer Tiruchirapalli in his introductory address, recollectedMahakaviBharathiyar’s song endru thaniyumintha suthanthira daaham –endru madiyum engal adimayin mogam. He spoke about the clarion call of Mahatma Gandhiji to 'Do or die' at the Bombay Congress meeting on August 8, 1942 and the sequence of events till 1947. The lives of Bharatiyar, VeerapandiyaKattabomman, TirupurKumaran, Vanchinathan, Velunachiyar, Subramaniyam Siva MaruthuPandiyar, Pulithevar continue to inspire us as their deeds are selfless, he added. He cited Vedaranyam Salt Satyagraha led by Rajaji inspired by Gandhiji which started from Tiruchirapalli to Vedaranyam to break British Salt laws.


    Shri K Subramanian retired Youth Coordinator Nehru Yuva Kendra Tiruchirapalli said that Mahatma Gandhiji’s nonviolence has been a global trendsetter. He remembered the sacrifices of Periyar, Kamaraj, Rajaji, Vanchinathan, KodikathaKumaran, and many freedom fighters who fought for Independence. He spoke about how MahakaviBharatiyar inspired youth to fight for freedom with his revolutionary poems.


    Smt T Bhuvaneswari district Programme Officer Integrated Child development scheme Perambalur in her special address stressed on importance of breastfeeding for the holistic health of child. She said nutritious food for mother is also important as breast milk is crucial for immunity and growth of child.


    Dr Mahalakshmi Medical Officer in her special address said breast milk should be given exclusively to the child for six months. She said that breast milk contains proteins,vital fats and important vitamins . She urged mothers to devote 15 to 20 minutes for the child and feed her child. Answering to a question she said that a covid 19 positive mother can feed her child. But she has to wear face masks and maintain health norms.


    Shri K Ravindran Field Publicity Assistant FOB Tiruchirapalli moderated the programme and rendered vote of thanks. ecertificates were given to all participants through link. More than 225 persons from all walks of life especially from Trichy and Perambalur participated in the webinar. The webinar was streamed live in youtube link of Regional Outreach Bureau Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1651243) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil