      Special Service and Features

      Digitalization here to stay
      Posted On: 31 AUG 2020 8:01PM by PIB Chennai


    “Digitalization in Higher Education leads to transparency and curbs corruption”, said Prof. Dr. P. Kolandaivel, Vice- Chancellor, Periyar University, Salem during a webinar, jointly conducted by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting’s Field Outreach Bureau, Salem and Press Information Bureau, Chennai, in association with Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Periyar University, Salem.


    Elaborating on the topic, Ascendancy of Digitalization in Higher Education Institutions, Dr. Kolandaivel said that the digitalization is more challenging for teachers than the students. Despite the increasing number of resource materials available for the students to access, when they approach their tutors to clarify the doubts, the teachers have to do a lot of research and provide the latest information.


    On the positive aspect, through digitalization, we are able to attend webinars conducted by experts around the world and enhance knowledge, which otherwise would not have been possible. Government of India focuses on developing the infrastructure of educational institutions, he said


    “Digital marketing is extremely useful for the farmers. Earlier, farmers were not aware of the cost difference in the various cities. But now, with the help of digital marketing, a farmer, for example in Salem or Coimbatore, gets an opportunity to know the cost of his product in Maharashtra and thereby he can sell his product for the best price”, Dr. Kolandaivel said. Considering the future of digital marketing, there are plans to introduce vocational courses in digital marketing in Periyar University, he added.


    In addition, he said that understanding the importance of Industry 4.0, which is related to software and digital industrial technology, the University gives more preference for skill oriented courses. “Industry 4.0 is very important for the country and our scientists. Hence, AR (Augmented Reality) and VR (Virtual Reality) technologies were introduced by the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication in Periyar University”, he added.


    Dr. V. Natarajan, Professor and Head, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Member- Syndicate, Periyar University, Salem, spoke on the topic, Metamorphosis of teaching and learning in the digital era. He said that the technology of Experiential Reality, literally takes the student to the virtual world, where he/she can feel and understand the concept, in an easy and better manner. “Even complex concepts can be learnt effectively through this technology. Gamification of digital learning is another concept where students learn by playing interactive games, where the points are calculated based on the accuracy of the answer and the time taken to complete it”, he said.


    Skill oriented courses are the future and by 2025, it is estimated that there will be openings for over 2 million jobs which will completely be based on skill and mere graduation will not suffice, he added. Considering this, the National Skill Development Corporation has introduced various skill-related training, Dr. Natarajan said.


    The AR and VR technology in curriculum drastically reduces human intervention and the output is biased, he added. “Virtual labs, which do not require physical space, are the future and these types of laboratories are beneficial for all subjects, including physics, chemistry and biology. Apart from this, literature, language and even music can be learnt effectively through technology”, he said.


    Answering a question regarding the recent spread of fake news in social media, Dr. Natarajan said that it is essential to inculcate proper education and awareness about media in the minds of children and related information should be included in school education.


    During his Presidential address, Shri. S. Venkateswar, Director General (South Zone), Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, said that the administration work in the state of Andhra Pradesh has been entirely digitalized, which ensures transparency, accuracy and speed. He appreciated the work of professors saying that they are the think tanks and a great source of information.


    In his Introductory address, Shri. Gurubabu Balaraman, Director, Press Information Bureau, Chennai, said that the pandemic has made digitalization mandatory in higher education. Digital classes, which were once common for college students, have now entered the lives of primary school children as well, he said. Digital platforms are useful for preventing plagiarism, especially in the research works of students. Digitalization has ensured that the teachers’ plan of work is not stopped, he added.


    Earlier, Shri. Kamaraj, Joint Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Chennai, welcomed the participants and said that COVID-19 has indeed showed us various ways to strengthen our resources, so as to make the country self-reliant, as quoted by the Honourable Prime Minister. Post digitalization, the online transaction has witnessed huge growth, he said.


    Shri. S. Murali, Field Publicity Officer, Field Outreach Bureau, Salem, delivered the vote of thanks.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1651230) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil