      Ministry of Finance

      Welfare Schemes should reach the poor, Credit facility to eligible through Grahak Mela(Customer outreach Programme)-MoS Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy
      Posted On: 04 OCT 2019 6:49PM by PIB Hyderabad


    The Minister of state for Home affairs Shri G Kishan Reddy said that the central government is working hard to reach the welfare schemes to the poor. Speaking on the occasion of the outreach program organized by the Bank of India, the Minister said that after the implementation of the GST, the prices of essential commodities had come down and black money had been returned to the banks after the cancellation of big notes.


    He said small and medium-sized merchants were being introduced through the Mudra Loans. The Prime Minister-led union government is aiming to grow as $ 5 trillion economy; in this way we are helping small traders by providing them a credit to grow their businesses. All the queries will be addressed at the stalls that were set up here.


    Shri Madnesh Kumar Mishra, Joint Secretary, Department of Financial Services, said there was a shortage of banknotes in the country, as it is in publicity. As the Prime Minister said that credit culture could be enhanced through discussions at the grass root level, the banking outreach program has been formulated in 250 districts as first phase and in 200 districts in the next phase. This is part of the systematic bank reform process which envisioned taking banks to doorsteps and increasing ease of customer access and delivery of services, he added.


    Designed to provide banking outreach in two phases across 450 districts, NBFCs, MFIs, SHGs, MSMEs, Mudra, Retail and Agri-Clients participated. The inspiration behind this program is to show the capacity of the PSBs and the willingness to fund all sectors of the economy. This Customer Outreach Initiative is underway to fulfil the goal of financial inclusion, including the promotion of digital payments. It helps in the re-establishment and rebranding of public sector banks while serving the community. The main objective of the program is to identify bank priorities for the $ 5 trillion economy.
    Representatives, top officials and clients of various banks participated in the event.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587282) Visitor Counter : 28
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu