      PIB Headquarters

      OUTREACH PROGRAMME by International Advanced Research Centre For Powder Metallurgy & New Materials (ARCI)
      Posted On: 24 OCT 2019 7:07PM by PIB Hyderabad


    International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials (ARCI), Hyderabad, an autonomous R&D Institution under the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, pursuing R&D on high-performance materials & processes has been successfully developing several materials-based technologies and transferring them to industry for application and commercialisation. ARCI has organized an Outreach Programme today through an Open Day, Quiz, Elocution and Solar Cell Assembly competitions for students both from Schools and Colleges and Interaction programmes with Scientists.More than 100 Scientists and research fellows interacted with the visitors. The event wasconducted under the auspices of the Ministry of Science and Technology and VijnanaBharathi (VIBHA).


    The event was an outstanding success with overwhelming response from about 200 young registered participants from Schools and Colleges for the events. They were taken around the laboratory to see live demonstrations of state-of-the-art equipment at various Centres of Excellence to start with. The Inauguration started with a brief about the Outreach Programme by the Nodal Officer, Dr. G. Ravichandra followed by welcome Address by Dr. G. Padmanabham, Director-ARCI and remarks by Dr. K. Ratna, K V Rao Scientific Society, Hyderabad and the Chief Guest Dr. G. Madhusudhan Reddy, Scientist ‘H’ and Outstanding Scientist, Defence Metallurgical Research Laboratory (DMRL), Hyderabad.


    Dr.Ratna emphasised the importance of popularizing the Science among the student community and also briefed about their Society’s contribution for the same. Dr. G. Madhusudhan Reddy highlighted the challenges and excitement in scientific and technological research and such programmes will be very useful to ignite the young minds. He gave interesting insights in to materials challenges in advanced products like hypersonic vehicles etc., and touched upon applications of computation and artificial intelligence in materials research. Dr. G. Padmanabham delivered a Public lecture on “Innovations and Advances in Materials” covering various aspects from fundamentals of material to applications developed at ARCI. He highlighted the importance of material processing techniques, testing methods, technology demonstration and the translation of concepts to commercialization. The lecture has certainly created lot of interest among the students about the materials science and engineering as a future career.


    As a part of the outreach programme, a quiz and elocution competitions were conducted among 127 registered participants and the winners of the both would be given an opportunity to participate in the forthcoming India International Science Festival (IISF-2019, scheduled to be held during 5-8 November 2019 in Kolkata). The Winner of the Quiz Competition is RachitMohal, Kumar Shantanu, MurtazaKushalGadhwala from Sherwood Public School, Kompally. The Runners are NishantPrabhat, Jal Dev Sanjay Khalane and Om Swarup M from Defence Labs School, Kanchanbagh& Aditya Sagar, Shivam Gupta, Rohan Deshpande from Army Public School, Bolarum.


    In the Elocution Competition Ms. Amruta from MGIT, Hyderabad stood first and Ms. Deepthi from University of Hyderabad stood second position. In the Solar Cell Assembly Competition PradhyunMahasivdehattu, Pranay Rai, Aryan Parthi Reddy, Tejasdatta from Unicent School, Bachupally are the Winners and the Runners are B. Anjana, D. Bonnie, S. Lohitaksh, J. Niharika from Santinos Global School.


    There was a huge response for the open day with approximately 1550 from Academia, Industry and general public during the day. They were taken around the laboratory to see and learn about R&D being carried out at ARCI. Very interesting discussions took place between students and scientists during the exclusive interaction session organized as part of the programme.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589136) Visitor Counter : 31