      Ministry of Textiles

      Fourth National Handloom Day to be celebrated in Nagade, Nashik
      
      Weaver’s Service Centre, Mumbai will organize a day-long function for the benefit of weavers

      Posted On: 02 AUG 2018 3:31PM by PIB Mumbai

    The National Handloom Day will be celebrated in Nagade, Tal- Yeola, Nashik district on August 7. Minister for Education, Water Resources and Command Area Development, Government of Maharashtra, Shri Girish Mahajan will grace the programme as Chief Guest.


    Various programmes for the weavers’ community have been organized by the Weavers’ Service Centre, on this occasion. These programmes include dissemination of information about major initiatives for development of handloom sector (Block level cluster, India Handloom Brand, Handloom Mark, MUDRA scheme, Insurance scheme, e-commerce, e-Dhaga, Geographical Indications), interaction with weavers, presentation of local success stories, exhibition of designs, samples and products developed by Weavers’ Service Centre (Mumbai), live demonstration of block printing and interaction with participant weavers/ master weavers and designers for promotion of handlooms in Maharashtra and across India.


    Sant Kabir Awardees and National Awardees from Yeola, Principal Secretary of Textiles,will also be present as Guests of Honour on the occasion. All National Awardees, Sant Kabir Awardees, Merit Certificate Holders, All India Handloom Board Members, Designers, State organizations related to Textiles are also invited.


    Background


    The date August 7 has been chosen as National Handloom Day, due to its special significance in India`s history; it was on this day that the Swadeshi Movement was launched in 1905. The formal proclamation of Swadeshi Movement was made on August 7, 1905 in a massive meeting in the Calcutta Town hall. The movement involved revival of domestic products and production processes. The Government of India declared August 7 as National Handloom Day every year, in memory of this.


    The first National Handloom Day was launched by the Honourable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, on August 7, 2015 in Chennai.


    ***


    DJM/IJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541290) Visitor Counter : 2712
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi