      Ministry of Tourism

      The 6th International Buddhist Conclave 2018 to be held in Aurangabad
      12 to 15 Buddhist Nations to attend

      Posted On: 23 AUG 2018 5:55PM by PIB Mumbai

    With an aim to encourage the prominent Buddhist heritage and pilgrim sites in the State of Maharashtra, Ministry of Tourism, Government of India along with Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation is organizing the “6th International Buddhist Conclave 2018 on 24th August 2018 in Aurangabad. The International Buddhist Conclave 2018 will highlight the traditional and historical facets of Buddhism across the world.


    Buddhist delegates, monks and the consulate general from 12 to 15 Buddhist nations will be present at the conclave where, business meetings between them and domestic tour operators will be facilitated. Additionally, presentations and cultural programmes will used to highlight the Buddhist attractions across the State. The conclave will offer participants a platform to interact, encourage, package and sell pilgrimage tours to potential tourists.


    Minister of Tourism, Government of Maharashtra, Shri Jaykumar Rawal, commented about this occasion that , “Buddhist Tourism is a growing sector and the International Buddhist Conclave will help us understand its potential and opportunities to promote Buddhist sites in the state. I am certain through this initiative Maharashtra will be able to encourage Buddhist travellers from across the world. The Ministry of Tourism has also recognized stupas and viharas across the country and is planning to develop these Buddhist Circuits.”


    Maharashtra is one of the most popular tourist destinations in India offering a diverse range of experiences from pristine beaches, wildlife sanctuaries, hill stations, natural caves, waterfalls, to imposing forts, colourful festivals, ancient pilgrimage shrines, museums, and historical monuments. Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) was established with the aim of promoting tourism in the state. To aide tourists, MTDC has opened information centres at all popular destination, which provide travel information about various tourist spots in Maharashtra. For further details, please visit:


    http://www.maharashtratourism.gov.in/


    ***


    NS/MC/IJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543719) Visitor Counter : 1357
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi