      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Documentary Film Club5th Edition on 26th August at NFAI
      &
      Appeal to support Kerala Flood Relief
      Posted On: 20 AUG 2018 4:42PM by PIB Mumbai


    5th edition of ‘Documentary Film Club’ will feature award winning documentary ‘A Very Old Man With Enormous Wings’ by film maker Prateek Vats at 6pm on Sunday 26th August at NFAImain auditorium, National Film Archive of India, Law College Road, Pune.


    Shri Vats will be present during the screening for interaction with the audience. An alumnus of Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), Pune Pratik Vats is an independent filmmaker and writer based out of Mumbai/Goa. He has been working on both fiction as well as non-fiction films. This is his first feature length film which got special mention at the65th National Film Awards.


    ‘A Very Old Man With Enormous Wings’ anchored in the twilight years of the life of legendary Indian bodybuilder and former Mr. Universe, Monohar Aich (The winner of the 1952 Mr. Universe contest). A delicate and nuanced film, it consciously moves away from the evidential burden of a ‘biopic’ towards an intimate portrait – a story that transcends time to reveal the oddities that make human stories worth telling.The film is not only the story of India’s most celebrated bodybuilder, but also a considerate glimpse into a family whose lives have been eclipsed by his celebrity and longevity, in equal measure.


    National Film Archive of India in collaboration with Arbhaat Film Club and Art Experiments recently launched Documentary Film Club to help documentary cinema to reach the wider Indian audience. The film club aims to bring a variety of content in terms of short films and documentaries and intends to provide the budding young film makers an exposure of the rich content as well as an opportunity to interact with the filmmaker himself.


    Supporting the efforts of FTII alumni in Mumbai and Pune, NFAI has appealed that relief material for Kerala Floods, in terms of clothes, medicines and stationary material may be provided to the office of Arbhaat Films till 25 th August. Staff of NFAI will be contributing to the relief efforts by providing these items.


    Contributions can be made in the office of Arbhaat Films till 25 th August. Please pack the contributions separately in boxes and mention the content and quantity on the box and send the contributions to Arbhaat Films, Swagat 71, 1 st floor, Natraaj Society, lane 3, Near Pratidnya Mangal Karyalay, Karve Nagar, Pune, 411052


    In the case of medicines, check the expiry dates.


    ***


    DJM/IJ/MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543417) Visitor Counter : 319