      Ministry of Shipping

      ‘Shipping Portal’ to be launched soon to ensure transparency and efficiency in the sector: Shri Mansukh Mandaviya
      
      Inaugurated two e-Modules developed to strengthen Shipping Sector

      Posted On: 30 AUG 2018 5:14PM by PIB Mumbai

    Union Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways, Shipping, Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandaviya has said that a customer-centric, globally accessible Shipping Portal will be launched soon to provide common platform to all stakeholders. He said that the portal will provide end-to-end solutions for various activities in the sector and will be totally secured. He was speaking to media on the sidelines of the Consultation on Shipping Portal with Stakeholders in Mumbai today.He also said that the portal will ensure transparency and efficiency in the Shipping/ Maritime Sector as there will be minimum manual intervention as regards to issuing of certificates and approvals. On this portal, all training institutes, agents sending seafarers to other countries and shipping companies will come together on common platform. This will not only fulfill the dream of digital India but will pave the road for good governance.


    He further said that Maritime Sector is a rising sector and Director General Shipping plays a vital role. The Minister said that India has a 7-thousand kilometer long coastline and has been traditionally using waterways for business. He added however that as compared globally, we lack in the number of seafarers. However in the last four years, under the able guidance of Honourable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, we could register 42% growth in the number of seafarers, which he said will further increase. This has creatednumber of new employment opportunities for the youth.


    On the occasion, Shri Mandaviya also inaugurated two e-Modules – one for Recruitment and Placement Service Agencies and the other for facilitating Maritime Training Institutes.


    ***


    NS/IJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544532) Visitor Counter : 319
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi