      PIB Headquarters

      V.O.CHIDAMBARANAR PORT TRUST CELEBRATES 148th BIRTH ANNIVERSARY OF V.O.CHIDAMBARANAR
      Posted On: 05 SEP 2019 7:57PM by PIB Chennai


    V.O.Chidambaranar Port Trust celebrated the 148 th Birth Anniversary of V.O.Chidambaranaron 05.09.2019. Shri T.K. Ramachandran, I.A.S., Chairman, V.O.Chidambaranar Port Trust and Shri N. Vaiyapuri, Deputy Chairman, V.O.Chidambaranar Port Trust garlanded the statue of V.O.Chidambaranar in the Port premises.


    Floral Tributes to the Legendary Freedom Fighter were also offered by
    Shri T.K. Ramachandran, IAS., Chairman, Shri N. Vaiyapuri, Deputy Chairman, Shri C. Gopi Krishana, Trustee, DIG Aravind Sharma, Trustee, and Shri N. Sankaralingam, Trustee, Heads of the Departments, Officers and Staff of the Port.


    In a formal function organished to pay tribute to V.O.Chidambaranar,
    Shri Girish P. Naik, Secretary, V.O.Chidambaranar Port Trust welcomed the gathering. Chief Guest of the function, Dr. K. Subbulakshmi, Associate Professor in Tamil, A.P.C. Mahalakshmi College for Women, Tuticorin delivered an inspirational speech on the life of V.O.Chidambaranar. She highlighted his achievements as the Trade Union Leader and narrated his sufferings during his imprisonment by the British. She also exhorted the Children to follow the footsteps of the Great Patriot from this Region.


    Guest of Honour, Shri N. Vaiyapuri, Deputy Chairman, V.O.Chidambaranar Port Trust in his address elucidated the labour welfare initiatives taken by V.O. Chidambaranar in uplifting the working environment of Coral Mill (the present Madura Coast).


    Shri T.K. Ramachandran, I.A.S., Chairman, V.O.Chidambaranar Port Trust, in his address recalled the Sacrifices made by V.O.Chidambaranar and his indomitable courage and relentless effort in starting the First Swadesi Shipping Company against the British.He also spelled out the remarkable qualities of V.O. Chidambaranar like ‘determination’, ‘self-confidence’, ‘Persuasion’, ‘Helping Tendency’, ‘Courage’, ‘Scholarly works’& above all ‘Sacrifice’ and requested everyone to follow the footsteps of the legendary freedom fighter V.O. Chidambaranar. He also stated that Port would take steps to establish a pavilion / Museum for V.O. Chidambaranar at the Information Centre in the Port’s premises.


    Shri T.K. Ramachandran, I.A.S., Chairman, V.O.Chidambaranar Port Trust gave away the prizes to the winners of various Competitions conducted as part of the 148 th Birth Anniversary of V.O.Chidambaranar. Cultural Programmes were also performed by Port school children.


    A large number of School children, Teachers and Port Officials participated in the function commemorating the 148 th Birth Anniversary of V. O. Chidambaranar.


    The above details were released in the Press Release by
    V. O. Chidambaranar Port Trust, today.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584278) Visitor Counter : 74
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil