      PIB Headquarters

      Annual Meeting of International Working Group on Hot Laboratories and Remote Handling (HOTLAB 2019)
      Posted On: 09 SEP 2019 3:32PM by PIB Chennai


    The 56 th Annual Meeting of International Working Group on Hot Laboratories and Remote Handling (HOTLAB 2019) is being organized by Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research (IGCAR), Kalpakkam, in association with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the Indian Association for Radiation Protection (IARP), at Mamallapuram during Sept 8 - 12, 2019. This annual meeting is held each year to bring together scientists, engineers, technologists and manufacturers in the specialized field of safe handling of radioactive materials through application of various remote handling technologies, with the aim of sharing experiences and know-how, and to promote co-operation, collaborations and mutual support.


    Release of the Book of Abstracts of the 56 th Annual Meeting of International Working Group on Hot Laboratories and Remote Handling on September 9, 2019 at Mamallapuram. (R to L) Dr. G. Amarendra, Chairman, HOTLAB-2019, Dr. A. K. Bhaduri, Director, IGCAR, Dr. Ann Leenaers, SCK-CEN, Belgium, Dr. Ki Seob Sim, IAEA, Austria, Dr. R. Divakar, Convener, HOTLAB-2019.


    The meeting is being held in India for the first time; nearly eighty delegates from across the world and about thirty Indian delegates will be deliberating on various aspects of setting-up, operation, maintenance of Hot cells and associated facilities. In his inaugural address, Dr. A.K. Bhaduri, Director IGCAR stressed on the importance of remote technologies in fuel cycle activities and its relevance to the fast reactor programme being pursued at IGCAR. In his opening remarks, Dr. Ki Seob Sim of IAEA and Chairman, International Working Group of Hot Laboratories, presented an overview of PIE facilities database that is maintained by IAEA and their activities towards promoting international cooperation.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584539) Visitor Counter : 94