      PIB Headquarters

      ONGC extends support for Smart Class Rooms in Annamalai University, Chidambaram
      Posted On: 05 SEP 2019 5:21PM by PIB Chennai


    ONGC – Cauvery Basin, Chennai as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative, has extended financial support of Rs.09.00Lakh to Annamalai University, Chidambaram for converting all Seven (07)Class Rooms of Department of Physics, Faculty of Science into SMART class rooms. The project includes providing Projectors, Smart Boards, Ceiling mount kits, Cables, Laptops, Audio systems, Electrical Accessories, and their installation.


    In a brief function held on September 5, 2019on the occasion of Teachers’ Day, at Annamalai University, these SMART class rooms were inaugurated by Prof. V Murugesan, Vice Chancellor, Annamalai University in presence of Mr. Syam Mohan V, Executive Director, ONGC Cauvery Basin, Chennai.


    Speaking on the occasion Prof. Murugesan thanked ONGC for the support emphasizing thatthe SMART class rooms will enable the department to adopt modern and more effective multi-media based creative and interesting teaching methodologies, benefitting the graduate and post-graduate students.. It may be mentioned that prior to conversion as SMART class rooms with ONGC’s support, faculties of Department of Physics were using second generation traditional teaching methods of chalk and board as well as OHP.


    Mr. Syam Mohan V, Executive Director, ONGC Cauvery Basin, Chennai, urged the faculty and students of the department to make the best use of the facilities created.


    Mr. NMani, Group General Manager and other Senior Executives of ONGC, Chennai, Head-Department of Physics,Annamalai University, alumni, current and former faculty members and students attended the function.


    ONGC a ‘Partner in Progress’ of the state of Tamil Nadu, in the last 8 financial years, has contributed to the State exchequer a total of Rs.2652 Crores as Royalty & VAT, and about Rs.55 Crores on CSR Projects in the operational areas of Tamil Nadu.


    *******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584243) Visitor Counter : 68
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil