      PIB Headquarters

      Annual Survey on Unincorporated Sector Enterprises
      Posted On: 16 SEP 2019 5:38PM by PIB Chennai


    Regional Training Conferenceon the FIRST ROUND of Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises (ASUSE) for Field Officials of the National Statistical Office (Field Operations Division), Tamil Nadu (North) Region under the Union Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, will be organized from 18-09-2019 to 20-09-2019 at Chennai. The representatives from Directorate of Economics and Statistics,Puducherry will also be participating in the event. The Conference will be heldatThe Vestin Park (A Unit of Vestin Park Hotels Pvt Ltd.,) No-39,Red Cross(Monteith) Road, Egmore,Chennai-600 008.


    Dr. S. Durai Raju, Deputy Director General, NSSO (FOD), Tamil Nadu (North) Region will inaugurate the Conference on 18th September2019. The Technical Sessions would be conducted by Smt. AnithaParthasaradhi, Assistant Director and she will be assisted by a team of Senior Statistical Officers.


    National Statistical Office (NSO) of India will be conducting Annual Survey on Unincorporated Sector Enterprises (ASUSE) during October 2019 – March 2020. This is the first round of ASUSE and the survey period for the initial round will be for six months. However, based on the survey experience, next round of ASUSE will be launched from April, 2020 and will continue for one year i.e. up to March, 2021. This cycle (April – March) is expected to continue in subsequent years.


    This survey will be devoted exclusively to economic and operational characteristics of unincorporated non-agricultural establishments in manufacturing, trade and other services sector.


    In Indian economy, unincorporated sector is important because of the large number of establishments in this sector and the magnitude of employment it provides to unskilled/ semi-skilled/ skilled persons, besides its contribution to Gross Domestic Product of the country. The necessity for reliable and comprehensive data pertaining to unincorporated sector for planning and policy formulations needs no emphasis. This round is devoted exclusively to an integrated survey on economic and operational characteristics of unincorporated non-agricultural enterprises in manufacturing, trade and other services sectors to supplement the corporate sector data. This will help National Accounts Division (NAD) of NSO to compute important components of national accounts. Specially designed three digit product codes introduced in the enterprise schedule of this round will help NAD also make use of the survey results in preparation of Supply-Use Table. The data to be collected in this round will help in meeting the requirements of different Ministries, Organizations and users in general.


    The coverage of first round of Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises (ASUSE) (October 2019 – March 2020) will be unincorporated non-agricultural establishments belonging to three sectors viz., Manufacturing, Trade and Other Services.


    The survey will cover the rural and urban areas of whole of India (except the villages in Andaman and Nicobar Islands which are difficult to access).


    The period of survey for 1st round of ASUSE will be of six months duration starting from 1st October 2019 and ending on 31st march 2020. The Information collected pertaining to an individual or establishment in the survey is kept confidential and is not revealed to anybody, including other Departments. The General Public is requested to extend their fullest co-operation by providing relevant, valuable and factual information to the visiting field officials of NSSO (FOD), and contribute their might in the Nation Building Process.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585208) Visitor Counter : 594
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil