      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Union Ministers Shri Vijay Goel and Shri Rajyavardhan Rathore Flag off 5th Slum Yuva Daud at Nand Nagri, Delhi
      Posted On: 02 JUL 2017 12:38PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel and Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting Shri Rajyavardhan Rathore here today flagged off the 5 th Mega Slum Yuva Daud. Today’s Daud started from Gagan Cinema Nand Nagri and ended at Harnam Palace. More than 3000 youth from various slums of Rohtash Nagar, Babarpur, Seelampur, Gokul Puri and Seemapuri participated in it.

    
    Addressing the participants shri Goel said that this is not just any other run but we are running for a better tomorrow, a New India where each youngster is and would be capable in different fields including sports. He said, Sports is one field in which we must grow from the grassroots to become big and powerful. The Minister emphasized that this Daud aims to involve youngsters in constructive activities to keep the away from anti-social evils such as drug abuse and violence. He said his aim is to engage youth in constructive activities to utilize their power in for development and progress of New India in the making. Shri Goel also said, Youth from slum areas will soon be part of different teams of football, basketball, badminton in their areas and will take part in competitions locally to hone their skills and talents further. He said this will enable to scout for talent and we might be able to find the future PV Sindhu, Sunil Chhetri and Kidambi from among the talented lot.
    
    Speaking on the occasion Minister of State for I&B Shri Rajyavardhan Rathore said, sports is a key uniting factor and empowers the youth. This Daud is a great initiative by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports to mobilise youth and engage them in sporting activities. He encouraged the youngsters to participate in such sporting events, competitions to utilize their time and skills to achieve big in life.
    
    The Slum Yuva Daud is part of the Adopt Slum Campaign initiated by the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports and Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan which aims at highlighting the government’s pro-people schemes among masses. “Adopt a Slum” campaign will involve groups like NSS, public schools, RWAs, NGOs and Rotary clubs etc. A total 11 Slum Yuva Runs have been planned out of which 5 have already been successful with Mass participation.
    
    AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494329) Visitor Counter : 120