      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Union Minister Shri Vijay Goel and Wrestler Shakshi Malik Flag off 7th Slum Yuva Daud
      Posted On: 09 JUL 2017 1:59PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Union Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports shri Vijay Goel today flagged off the 7th Slum Yuva Daud with Ramesh Bidhuri, MP and Olympic medalist ace wrestler Sakshi Malik.

    
    Today’s Daud started from Tughlakabad Fort village and ended at Karni Singh Shooting Range. More than 3000 youth from Delhi slums participated in it. Addressing the participants shri Goel said, that This is not just any other run but we are running for a better tomorrow, a ‘New India’ where each youngster is a capable being and sports being one field in which we must grow big and powerful. The Minister also interacted with the participants via quiz contest and songs etc. He asked them to retain their shirts, medals and certificates as these would help them gain access to a mega Programme being planned with all the participants of 11Slum Runs.
    
    Olympic medal winner wrestler Sakshi Malik urged the youth to participate in sporting activities and promote healthy living and cited sports and youth as two pillars of India’s greatness. Sakshi Malik gave a thumbs up to the Sports Ministry’s initiative of Slum Yuva Daud and called it a ‘great way” to tap young talent.
    
    Shri Ramesh Bidhuri said, such sporting events promote unity among youth and encourage them to take up sports and other constructive activities. The Slum Yuva Daud is part of the Adopt Slum Campaign initiated by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports and Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan which aims at highlighting the government’s pro-people schemes among masses. A total 11 Slum Yuva Runs have been planned out of which 7 have already been completed successfully with mass participation.
    
    The 8th Slum Yuva Daud is scheduled for 15 July, 2017.

    *****


    AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494902) Visitor Counter : 66
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil