      Ministry of Education

      Union Minister of Education, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, addresses Faculty of Higher Educational Institutions on a Live Webinar hosted by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), Bengaluru
      Posted On: 11 SEP 2020 7:18PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Union Minister of Education Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ Ji addressed the Faculty of Institutes of Higher Learning across the country today i.e on 11 th September, 2020 on a Live Webinar titled ‘Acharyadevo Bhava’, hosted by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC),Bengaluru. The Hon’ble Minister addressed and Interacted with a Galaxy of Academicians comprising participation from Vice Chancellors / Registrars / Professors / IQAC heads / Principals / Faculty from across the Nation. Noting the fact that NAAC has taken commendable initiatives to hand-hold the Higher Educational Institutions during the current pandemic period, which is in tune with the changing scenario and aspirations of the system as well as the stakeholders of higher education.


    Addressing the academic fraternity, Hon’ble Minister reiterated the immense contribution and influence of Teachers in holistic development of students. On this occasion, we need to thank our teachers, counselors and parents, with whose blessings we have learned a lot. The role of Teacher is paramount in today’s context and our Rich Indian Culture has epitomised the role of Teacher with that of Gods, recently we have celebrated Teachers' Day. The birthday of Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Ji, former President of India.This day is celebrated every year as 'Teacher's Day'. Dr. Radhakrishnan was a very famous teacher, so we celebrate his birthday as "Teacher's Day"; he noted.


    If we talk about India, it is a nation with a tradition of "guru-disciple". It is a land of knowledge, a land of penance, a land of accomplishment. This is a land of meditation, salutation and a land of acknowledgement. Therefore, we have to glorify the teachers and the Acharyas and salute them. Especially today there is another coincidence as well. In the pages of the World History, 11 th September 1893 is to be written in golden words because on this day, Swami Vivekananda astonished the whole world with his famous lecture at the ‘Parliament of the World’s Religions’ held in Chicago, USA. The speech with words “My sisters’ and brothers of America” made Swami Vivekananda very popular. On this day, Swami Vivekananda presented India's elevated spiritual ideas and practises on the global platform and made India proud. He presented a strong image of India to the world. In this way, India had gained
    victory in the ‘thought-process’ at the world level. Hence, every year, 11th September is celebrated as 'Digvijay Diwas.' India has done extensive studies and research in every area of ​​life. India has given the direction, vision and education of life to the world. On the basis of the same knowledge and science, our great men have created a magnificent India, the Hon’ble Minister said.


    Now the time has come to implement the 'National Education Policy 2020' as soon as possible and revive the strong foundation of Indian education and nurture our society and connect to our roots. But for this to happen the teachers and the professors have to be prepared. Students ideas and imaginations have to be further promoted. The curiosity and thought-process within has to be awakened, bought-out and nurtured. For this, based on the ancient teaching methods, a new education structure has to be built, new teaching methods will have to be developed. More the talented and devoted a teacher is, talented will be the up coming generation. One has to adopt the method of choosing content from his life experiences, imparting knowledge through workshops and experiments and awakening curiosity. The more the Acharya, involve in this process , take interest in it and also increase his contribution, the more students' understanding and curiosity will increase. They will gain true knowledge, the minister said’


    The event was also graced by Prof D P Singh, Chairman, UGC, Prof Virander S Chauhan, Chairman, EC, NAAC. Prof S C Sharma, Director, NAAC spoke & coordinated the event.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1653404) Visitor Counter : 24
    
    
      Read this release in: Kannada