      Prime Minister's Office

      Thanks to Ayushman Bharat – Life Turns Normal to this Remote Islander
      
      Ratan Barai Now Leads a Healthy Life
      
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2019 7:29PM by PIB Delhi


    52 Year Old Ratan Barai from Andaman and Nicobar hails from a poor family and was suffering from Myocardial Infarction.


    He was admitted to the G B Pant Hospital in Port Blair pain on the left side of the chest and profuse sweating. He also had Diabetes Mellitus. Investigations revealed Acute Anterior Wall Myocardial Infarction. He was stabilized with medical management and later referred to cardiologists in the mainland for further expert treatment.


    Since there is no treatment facility for heart ailments in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, all such patients travel to mainland India for treatment in cities like Kolkata and Chennai.


    For RatanBarai this was difficult as he did not have enough money.


    However when he learnt of the cashless insurance protection through Ayushman Bharat- PMJAY it brought a new ray of hope in his life. With its help he was then able to get the prescribed treatment for free.


    Today he is a healthy man and was one of the 31 beneficiaries who met the Prime Minister to explain the success of the World’s largest health scheme.


    Launched exactly a year ago in 2018, Ayushman Bharat is world’s largest health insurance scheme, which aims to provide easy access to medical facilities to over 10.74 Crore poor people in the country.


    In the last one year over 50,000 patients like Ratan Barai could get access to medical facilities outside their state where best such facilities were available owing to the Ayushman Bharat programme.


    Under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya (PM-JAY), 16,085 Hospitals have been empanelled, over 41 lakh beneficiaries have been treated and over 10 Crore e-Cards issued.


    Over 20,700 Health & Wellness Centers have become operational across the country under Ayushman Bharat.


    Click here to see Details here:


    *************


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586923) Visitor Counter : 526
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil