      Prime Minister's Office

      Poor Farmer from Assam Gets Saved Due to Ayushman Bharat
      
      Assam’s Kalita Under goes free Cranioplasty surgery through the cashless insurance scheme

      Posted On: 01 OCT 2019 7:51PM by PIB Delhi

    35 year old Dwijen Kalita from Assam, a poor paddy farmer suffered severe head injury. When he was admitted to the Kamrup Metro Hospital, he was semiconscious and was in agonising pain. Post detailed examination he was diagnosed with subdural haematoma which means he needed neurosurgery, Cranioplasty and an exogenous graft.


    Since Kalita’s economic condition was poor it seemed impossible for his family to bear the treatment expenses.


    However the family found its real hope when they were informed of the Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY under which he could undergo the prescribed treatment for free.


    Kalita feels that the scheme is a blessing for poor people like him.


    Today he is a healthy man and was one of the 31 beneficiaries who met the Prime Minister to explain the success of the World’s largest health scheme.


    Launched exactly a year ago in 2018, Ayushman Bharat is world’s largest health insurance scheme, which aims to provide easy access to medical facilities to over 10.74 Crore poor people in the country.


    In the last one year over 50,000 patients like Dwijen Kalita could get access to medical facilities outside their state where best such facilities were available owing to the Ayushman Bharat programme.


    Under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya (PM-JAY), 16,085 Hospitals have been empanelled, over 41 lakh beneficiaries have been treated and over 10 Crore e-Cards issued.


    Over 20,700 Health & Wellness Centers have become operational across the country under Ayushman Bharat.


    Click here to see Details here:


    ******


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586924) Visitor Counter : 468
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Punjabi , Tamil , Kannada