      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      PM chairs the valedictory session of Assistant Secretaries;
      IAS officers of 2017 batch make presentations to PM

      Posted On: 01 OCT 2019 5:39PM by PIB Delhi

    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi attended the valedictory session of Assistant Secretaries (2017 IAS batch) here today. The MoS (PP), Dr Jitendra Singh, Principal Secretary to Prime Minister, Dr. P.K. Mishra, Cabinet Secretary, Shri Rajiv Gauba, Secretary (DoPT) Dr C. Chandramouli and senior officers were also present on the occasion.


    The officers made several presentations to the Prime Minister on themes ranging from Transforming Aspirational Districts to Governance Solutions for Transparency and Faster Delivery.


    The Prime Minister encouraged the officers to be receptive towards new ideas, new concepts and perspectives. One should take feedback from multiple sources, analyze them and incorporate them, PM said. He asked the officers to strive for continuous learning and to foster curiosity.


    Interacting with officers, Prime Minister said that maintaining service orientation is paramount for a civil servant as it will bring out neutrality.


    Emphasizing on the importance of public participation, he urged the young officers to encourage collective efforts for effective implementation of government schemes. He exhorted the officers to imbibe the best experiences they had during the course of being Assistant Secretary.


    Prime Minister appreciated the young officers for their presentations and wished them the best for their roles ahead. “Your success is important for the nation. Your success can transform the lives of many people”, PM said.


    The Cabinet Secretary, Shri Rajiv Gauba said that during their career, these officers have to fulfil important responsibilities in states & Centre and this attachment helps them to understand the functioning of Central Government flagship programmes closely. This practice was started in the year 2015 and this is the 5 th such batch to be attached with Central ministries and departments, he said. He further added that there were 169 IAS officers of 2017 batch, who gained this experience this year. Shri Gauba conveyed his best wishes to the officers.


    ******


    VG/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586887) Visitor Counter : 302
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Malayalam