      Ministry of Education

      Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ leads the celebration of 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi in New Delhi
      
      The life and philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi is inspiration for the entire world– Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2019 6:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Human Resource Development Minister, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ participated in a National Level Functionto commemorate 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, organised by Department of School Education & Literacy, Ministry of HRD in New Delhi, today. The programme started with the visit of HRD Minister to a tableau on thetheme of Sabarmati Ashram which was demonstrated by KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan.During the visit, HRD Minister planted vegetable and fruit plants in pots to promote the cultivation of seasonal vegetables and fruits in kitchen gardens of urban schools where enough land is not available for gardening.During the programme, children from Delhi Government schools presented themselves in fancy dress in which 150 primary school students were dressed as Mahatma Gandhi. Shri Pokhriyal warmlygreeted the students and shared the message of love, non-violence and truth of Mahatma Gandhi.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shi Pokhriyal said that the students are brand ambassadors of our cleanliness campaign. They are making this campaign successful in their homes and areas. Students are also actively participating in the campaign like ‘NO to single use of plastic’ &‘one student one tree’.


    The Union Minister said that the life and philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi is inspiration not only for India but also for the entire world which is witnessing violence in various forms. The eternal aspects of his philosophy like truth, nonviolence and love are still relevant and need of the world.


    Shi Pokhriyal added thatIndia believes in the ideology of ‘VasudhaivaKutumbakam’andwe consider the world as family. The entire world has understood the power of Mahatma Gandhi's vision of truth, non-violence and love. He added that Mahatma Gandhiis always with us because his thoughts and values ​​are in us.


    On this occasion 150 seniorstudents of KVS performed ‘Sarva Dharma Prarthna’. After thata Skit on Mahatma Gandhi titled “BapuYahin Hain” based on values and ideals of Mahatma Gandhi was performed by the students of Delhi Public School R. K. Puram, New Delhi. HRD Minister appriciated the performances of the students.


    Union Minister also interacted with the students from the States of Assam, Karnataka, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan through Video Conference link. Students from deferent states share their views on Gandhi’s Vision. The Union Minister expressed his happiness over the knowledge and views of children on Mahatma Gandhi’s ideology. He appreciated the efforts of students in making a new Indiaalong the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi. Shri Pokhriyal also felicitated the winners of “Expression Series” on Mahatma Gandhi, conducted in CBSE affiliated schools.


    The commemoration of 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi will continue till October, 2020, for this purposemonth-wise activitiesto be held in schools also have been proposed. The proposed activities include cultural programmes by students on life of Gandhiji, Special cleanliness drive in and around school campus, speeches during morning by assembly by teachers/resource persons on different aspects of truthfulness and non violence, quiz competition on life of Gandhiji, essay and painting workshops among others.


    In the run up to commemoration of 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi,intensive programmes and activities on Mahatma Gandhi in schools in the country are being organized from 23 rd September, 2019 to 2 nd October, 2019. The activities conducted during the week includes faith prayer, deliberations on the values and ideals on Mahatma Gandhi, Dance, songs, skits, fancy dress, mono acting, Cleanliness drive “SwachatakeliyeGandhigiri”, writing poems, essays, slogans, painting & drawing, visits to museums and places associated with Gandhiji/screening of films, Quiz competition, exhibition of life Gandhi, exhibition on books on Gandhi etc.


    During the year 2018, The State/UT level play competitions were conducted and State/UT wise winner schools were selected. Students from 36 States/UTs, NVS, KVS and CBSE participated at school and State level. Shramdaan activities were undertaken in schools across the country on 1 5th September, 2018. Nearly 6.21 crore children participated in Shramdaan activities . Play competition on Mahatma Gandhi was organisedat Zonal level by Ministry of Culture. 7 teams selected at zonal level out of State/UT winning teams, performed at a national platform during the Kala Utsav in Delhi. Around 140 Students performed at National Level during KalaUtsav 2018.


    Secretary, Department of School Education & Literacy Smt. Rina Ray, Joint Secretary L. S. Changsanand other senior officials of Ministry of HRD, KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan, NavodayaVidyalayaSamiti, NCERT and CBSE were also presented on this occasion.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586897) Visitor Counter : 355