      Ministry of Defence

      First Training Squadron at Antsiranana, Madagascar
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2019 6:06PM by PIB Delhi


    As part of Indian Navy's Overseas Deployment, ships of Indian Navy's First Training Squadron, Indian Naval Ships Tir , Sujata and Indian Coast Guard Ship Sarathi , arrived at Antsiranana, Madagascar, today on
    01 Oct 19 for a three day visit. The Senior Officer of First Training Squadron is Captain Varun Singh, who is also Commanding Officer of INS Tir .


    The Indian Navy's First Training Squadron, under the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command based at Kochi, imparts training to Officer cadets of the Indian Navy, Indian Coast Guard as well as from Friendly Foreign Countries. The training curriculum of the cadets includes subjects like Seamanship, Navigation, Shiphandling, Boat Work and Engineering which is imparted onboard 1TS ships including Sail Training onboard the IN Sail Training Ships Tarangini and Sudarshini .


    During the port call, the Senior Officer of First Training Squadron will call on various dignitaries and government officials of Madagascar and Malagasy Navy including Commandant of Madagascar Naval Forces. Professional interactions are planned with the Malagasy Navy towards enhancing co-operation between the two navies. In addition, social engagements, sports events and best practices will also be shared between the two Navies. Further, the ships would be open for visitors on 02 Oct 19.


    Madagascar and India have traditionally enjoyed warm and friendly bilateral relations, sharing common values of democracy and development. There have been regular high level exchanges and interactions in numerous fields between both countries. Bilateral Defence Cooperation is being progressed through regular interactions between the governments of the two countries.


    Indian Navy ships are regularly deployed overseas as part of Indian Navy's mission of building 'bridges of friendship' and strengthening international cooperation with friendly countries.


    VM/AC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1586891) Visitor Counter : 747
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi