      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Shri Amit Shah inaugurates the North East Handloom and Handicraft Exhibition in Aizawl
      
      Handloom and handicrafts can generate huge employment opportunities in the North East, due to availability of natural resources and presence of traditional culture and skill: Home Minister
      
      In last 5 years, PM Shri NarendraModi has worked day and night to initiate whole of the North East on a path of peace and prosperity: Shri Amit Shah
      
      Once affected by insurgency, Mizoram today stands as a symbol of peace and fraternity and is giving this message to the whole World: Shri Amit Shah
      
      Home Minister stresses on the importance given to North East by NarendraModi Government and gives details of developmental initiatives taken in last 5 years
      Posted On: 05 OCT 2019 5:04PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Home Affairs, Shri Amit Shah inaugurated the North East Handloom and Handicraft Exhibition in Aizawl, Mizoram today. Also gracing the occasion were Chief Minister of Mizoram, Shri Zoramthanga and Union Minister of State (IC) for Development of North Eastern Region and Minister of State for Prime Minister's Office, Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions and Departments of Atomic Energy and Space, Dr.Jitendra Singh.


    Addressing at the event, the Home Minister expressed happiness to visit one of the most beautiful states in India and called it an important representative of Indian Democracy. "Once affected by insurgency and separatism, today Mizoram stands as a symbol of peace and fraternity and is giving this message to the whole World", he added.


    Shri Shah said that this is the first Handloom and Handicraft Exhibition being organised in the North East. Handloom holds the capability to generate huge employment opportunities in the North East and play an important role in the growth and development of the people, he said.


    Shri Shah observed that India's North East is rich in availability of forest produce and other raw materials for the handloom and handicraft sector. Combining this with the traditional culture of making handicrafts and presence of skilled people, he said, handicrafts can play a pioneering role in the development of the North East.


    The Home Minister said that during the first NarendraModi Government, Bamboo was taken out of the list of trees that were prohibited for felling due to environmental concerns. With this decision, the availability of Bamboo has been increased to facilitate the handicrafts sector by the government. The region that would benefit the most would be the North East, he added.


    Talking about the steps taken under the leadership of Prime Minister, Shri NarendraModi to make the North East prosper, Shri Shah said that the PM has worked day and night to initiate whole of the North East on a path of peace and prosperity. In Mizoram, in the last 5 years, a number of developmental projects have been initiated which include 60 MW Tuirialhydro electric power project. The Home Minister also expressed confidence that by 2021, Aizawl would be connected by broadgauge railways. The Kaladan multi modal waterway and establishing of new border hats would bring huge opportunities of trade and commerce to Mizoram. Other initiatives that have been initiated in Aizawl are Greater Aizawl water project, state referral hospital, state sports academy, horticulture colleges and a cricket stadium, he added.


    Drawing a comparison with the previous government, Shri Shah said that Mizoram received over Rs. 19,970 crores during 13th Finance Commission (FC), whereas, during the 14th FC, over Rs. 42, 970 crores have been spent by the Modi Government for Mizoram's development. He also gave details of progress on various flagship schemes of Goverment of India like LPG connections under PM UjjwalaYojana, houses under PM AwasYojana, bank accounts opened under PM Jan Dhanyojana, loans given to Mizo youth under PM Mudra yojana, building of national highways, household electrification and construction of toilets in Mizoram. Today, Mizoram is a totally open defecation free state, he noted with pride.


    Stressing on the importance the government gives to the development of the North East, Shri Shah said, "NarendraModi Government is totally committed to ensure development of Mizoram and to find solutions to all kinds of challenges that the state is facing". He concluding the address by assuring the Mizoram CM of government of India's full cooperation and assistance in taking the state on the path of swift progress and development.


    Addressing the event, Union Minister of State (IC) for DoNER said that the Central Government led by Prime Minister NarendraModi didn’t follow the dictum of vote bank politics. In its first tenure, the Modi government gave long list of projects to Mizoram including India’s first citrus fruit park and four border-haats, he said. Dr. Singh said that during the time of earlier governments, Prime Ministers often didn’t visit Mizoram but Prime Minister NarendraModi gave exclusive time to the state. He said that Home Minister Amit Shah also visited Mizoram within less than five months after becoming home minister. Dr. Singh said that now Mizoram is on the fast track of development and peace and development will increase in the state in time to come


    Addressing the function, Mizoram chief minister Shri Zoramthanga said that despite lack of resources in the state, Mizoram is using available resources in fullest extent. He said that after 10 years Mizoram will be one of the state of the country with highest per capita. Assam’s Finance Minister HimantaBiswaSarma and other dignitaries were also present in the programme.


    ***


    VG/NK/SN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587312) Visitor Counter : 514
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi