      Ministry of Education

      Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ lays foundation stone of the new integrated campus of CBSE at Dwarka today
      Posted On: 11 OCT 2019 6:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ laid the foundation stone of the new integrated campus of CBSE at Dwarka, New Delhi today.The event was held in the gracious presence of Smt. Anita Karwal, Chairperson, CBSE.


    Speaking on the occasion the HRD Minister congratulated CBSE for laying foundation of the new building. He said that the new building must not be merely a building of concrete but a centre of vision for betterment of education which should be reflected through this building.


    Shri Pokhriyal said that India is a young country and CBSE can play a crucial role to nurture and guide our children to lead the world again. He said that in order to give right direction to the youth, we are bringing New Education Policy after a gap of about 33 years. He further said that draft NEP has been prepared after long deliberation, suggestions and comments received from general public and its stakeholders. He assured that New Education Policy will be true representative of Indian culture and values with the need of 21st century.


    While addressing the gathering the HRD Minister said that as per the vision of our Prime Ministerto save the environment, MHRD is discouraging the use of single use plastic in the Ministry as well as its affiliated organisations and autonomous bodies. He further said that MHRD is also running One Student - One Tree campaign to increase green cover of our country and save 1 liter waterdaily to preserve water resources for future generations. He said that students are participating enthusiastically in these campaigns.


    Apart from providing diverse types of training to the teachers and principals of its affiliated schools through functioning Centers of Excellence, the Board has established 16 Regional Offices at Ajmer, Allahabad, Bengaluru, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Chennai, Delhi East, Delhi West, Dehradun, Guwahati, Noida, Patna, Panchkula, Pune and Thiruvananthapuram.


    In addition to the headquarters located in Delhi, the Board has a vocational examination unit at Preet Vihar, Academic and Skills Education Unit at Rouse Avenue and Regional Office and CTET Unit at Patparganj, Delhi.


    In order to maintain better coordination among the various branches / units of the Board in Delhi and to meet the increasing challenges due to increase in the number of CBSE affiliated schools, the Board had earlier proposed to create an integrated office complex in Delhi and for this purpose, a plot of three acres of land was purchased from the Development Authority of Delhi at Sector-23, Dwarka, Delhi.


    The board's proposed integrated campus building will be a state-of-the-art building while fulfilling the green building norms. Some of the special features of the building complex will include the installation of efficient building management system that will facilitate energy conservation. Solar panels will be installed that will produce300KWH of electricity from the roof of the building. A sewage treatment plan has also been proposed for flushing in toilets and reuse of gray water in landscaping. These facilities being included in the integrated campus will also contribute towards environmental protection. The latest security features have been taken care of in the design of the building. The 12,000 square meter building is estimated to be completed in period of approx. 24 months.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587861) Visitor Counter : 287
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi