      Ministry of Tourism

      The first week of nationwide “ParyatanParv 2019” witnesses A colourful array of activities across the country
      Posted On: 11 OCT 2019 6:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism has organised a nationwide event “ParyatanParv 2019” from 2 nd to 13 th October, 2019. The first week of the festival included A fanfare of activities across the country. The Delhi leg of the Parv was organized from 2 nd to 6 th October, 2019 at Rajpath lawns New Delhi. The five day festival witnessed a colourful array of Dance, Music and cultural performances from various parts of the country. ParyatanParv 2019 is dedicated to 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.


    This programme is being organized with the objective of drawing focus on the benefits of tourism by providing a platform for the artists, master craftsmen, chefs from all over India to showcase their talent, both by displaying and selling. In that sense it is a great economic engine, apart frombeing asocial and cultural promotion vehicle.


    

    The three components of ParyatanParv are:


    DekhoApnaDesh : To encourage Indians to visit their own country. There are several activities being organised across the Country like Photography contest covering tourism attractions and experiences, promotion on Social Media, Tourism related Quiz, Essay, Debate and Painting Competitions for Students. General public engagement for the event will be promoted through the MyGov platform.


    Tourism for All : Tourism Events across all States in the country are being organised. The activities include illumination or monuments / railway stations, Cultural Programmes of Dance, Music, Theatre, Story Telling, Tourism Exhibitions, showcasing Culture, Cuisine and Handicrafts / Handlooms, Guided Heritage Walks, visits to places of tourist interest, etc.


    Tourism & Governance : Interactive Sessions & Workshops with Stakeholders on varied themes are beingorganized across the Country.


    Some of the of the


    key highlights of the ParyatanParv 2019 Delhi leg were as following –


    1. Food Court with stalls of States, North East Council, IHMs, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI)


    2. Crafts Bazaar with Handicfrafts, Handlooms and Master Crafts persons, set up by States & UTs, North East Council, TRIFED, Ministry of Textiles (DC – Handicrafts & DC – Handlooms).


    3. Theme Pavilions of States and UTs to showcase their tourism destinations and products


    4. Performances by Armed Forces Bands&Cultural Performances from States/ UTs


    5. Live Cooking Demonstrations at Kitchen Studio


    6. Yoga Demonstrations and Performances by Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, Ministry of AYUSH


    7. Theme Pavilion highlighting ‘Swachhta’ and 150 Years of MahatmaGandhi by Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs.


    8. Other attractions: Mehendi, Magician, Puppet Shows, Karaoke, Selfie Points, Bioscope, etc.


    9. Audio Guide facility for 12 sites of India (including Iconic Sites) andMoU for GolGumbad, Delhi with Government of Delhi and Resbird Technologies also exchanged for the development of Tourism Amenities.


    In addition to the ParyatanParv event at the Rajpath Lawns New Delhi, the first week of ParyatanParv witnessed some enthralling activities organised by the domestic India tourism offices, Institute of Hotel Management, Indian Institute of Tourism and Travel Management (IITTM) and State Governments.


    Highlights of some of the events organised by the domestic Indiatourism offices across the country during first week of ParyatanParvare:


    NORTH


    A painting and slogan Competition was organized in the campus of Indian Institute of Tourism and Travel Management, Noida on the theme of ParyatanParv& 150 th years of Celebrating of the Mahatma.


    A heritage walk from Chawri Bazar to ChandniChowk was organized in Delhi to sensitize the local community about the importance of heritages directly to the Paryatak (Tourist), Swachchta Hi Seva was part of the activity.


    WEST


    A tour of the National Salt Satyagraha Memorial in Dandi, Gujarat was organised. A Seminar on Promoting Tiger Tourism for over 120 domestic Tour operators was organised in Nagpur followed by a Fam trip of Tadoba and Pench Tiger Reserve.Ahmadabad Heritage Tour, Parsis Heritage Tour and Gandhi Walk was organised in Mumbai.


    SOUTH


    A cultural evening in coordination with MadhuraiKamaraj University was organized. The event comprised of shadow puppet show for school children and a folk dance by folk artists showcasing rural folk arts.


    EAST


    A tourism talk, heritage walk, drawing competition, slogan writing was organised for the students of different colleges/schools in Patna.


    Workshops on DekhoApnaDesh at Dundus Point & Wiper Island, Neil Island, Havelock Island was organised.


    Workshop on Plastic Free Tourism for stakeholders, Storytelling on the theme of DekhoApnaDesh was organized in Kolkata.


    NORTH-EAST


    A heritage walk at Kangla Fort Imphal . tree plantation programme at LainingthouPuthaiba was organised in Imphal.


    Indiatourism, Guwahati, Assam Tourism and Food Craft Institute, Samaguri, Nagaon organized a workshop on Asamese Traditional Jewellery, Ethnic Food Festival and Traditional Cultural programme among the local people at Nagaon.


    A workshop on “Weavers of Majuli and empowerment of women”atRengam Society, Kanjiajan, Majuli was organised. A bike rally from Gangtok to Nathula pass, Indo-China Boarder was also organised.


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1587862) Visitor Counter : 431
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Hindi