      Ministry of Culture

      Union Culture Minister Shri Prahlad Singh Patel participates in BRICS Culture Ministers’ Meet at Curitiba, Brazil
      
      Joint exhibition 'Bonding Regions & Imagining Cultural Synergies' being hosted by NGMA of India under BRICS Alliance of Museums and Art Galleries during November-December, 2019: Culture Minister

      Posted On: 13 OCT 2019 3:34PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Culture and Tourism (Independent charge) Shri Prahlad Singh Patel participated in BRICS Culture Ministers’ meeting held in Curitiba, Brazil.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Patel said that India attaches importance to its engagement with BRICS which has emerged as a valuable forum for consultation, coordination and cooperation on contemporary global issues of mutual interest and has helped to promote mutual understanding. Addressing at the meeting, he reaffirms to contribute towards stronger bonds of friendship & cooperation in cultural fields amongst member countries. He said that given the rich cultural heritage and traditions of all members, we share understanding, respect and interest to contribute towards stronger bonds of friendship and cooperation in the fields of Arts, Museums & Galleries, Cultural Heritage, Archives, Literature, Theatre for children and young people, Films etc.


    Shri Patel said that the member countries have witnessed cultural cooperation scaling to new heights .Under the aegis of collaborations in these fields, our institutions have made commendable efforts to organize a number of events in these fields, well participated by all the member states. One such event namely joint exhibition titled Bonding Regions & Imagining Cultural Synergies is being hosted by National Gallery of Modern Arts of India under the auspices of the BRICS Alliance of Museums and Art Galleries during November-December, 2019. He also informed in the meeting that documents for collaboration in the fields of Art Galleries, Museums, Libraries and Theatre have been signed in the second meeting held at China in 2017.


    Shri Patel proposed to add another field of cooperation under the aegis of BRICS Alliance on Literature envisaging BRICS Literary Festival to enhance cooperation and exchanges in the field of literature and promoting translation of literary works of famous writers and poets of BRICS member states.


    Shri Patel put forward his thoughts on the Letter of Intention on Creative Economy in BRICS Countries to set milestone in the BRICS cultural cooperation. He requested his counterparts to come together for making committed efforts by agreeing to develop a thorough knowledge of the creative markets of BRICS member states and also encouraging mobility of professionals of creative economy so as to stimulate opportunities.


    *****


    NB/AKJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1587957) Visitor Counter : 765
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi