      Prime Minister's Office

      Joint inauguration of Metro Express and ENT hospital in Mauritius
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2019 7:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Prime Minister of Mauritius, The Hon’ble Mr. Pravind Jugnauth jointly inaugurated the Metro Express and new ENT Hospital in Mauritius through a video link today.


    Speaking on the occasion, Prime Minister Modi noted the significance of the Metro and health-care projects in further enhancing the quality of life of the people of Mauritius, as well as in deepening the close ties between the two countries. He also noted that today’s event was the first such occasion bringing India’s and Mauritian leaders together through a vide link across the Indian Ocean.


    Prime Minister Modi said that the much anticipated Metro Express (Light Rail Transit) Project, will transform the mobility landscape in Mauritius as an efficient, faster and cleaner mode of public transport. The state-of-the-art energy efficient ENT Hospital will significantly expand access to quality health-care and benefit the people in addition to being the first paperless E-Hospital in Mauritius.


    Prime Minister Jugnauth expressed his deep appreciation for the Indian support for these as well as other development cooperatition projects in Mauritius. He also conveyed his appreciation to all stakeholders for timely execution of these two people-oriented projects.


    Prime Minister Modi also conveyed Government of India’s decision to support Mauritius in construction of a Renal unit as well as Medi-Clinics and Area Health Centres through grant assistance.


    The two leaders also lauded the growth of India-Mauritius cooperation for the well-being of both the peoples and for peace and prosperity in the Indian Ocean region and in the world.


    *****


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587140) Visitor Counter : 762
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada