      President's Secretariat

      President of India graces birth centenary celebrations of Maharaja Jayachamaraja Wadiyar of Mysore; says best tribute we can pay him on his birth centenary is to emulate his values and his vision in our daily lives
      Posted On: 10 OCT 2019 9:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, graced and addressed the birth centenary celebrations of Maharaja Jayachamaraja Wadiyar of Mysore today (October 10, 2019) in Mysuru.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that Maharaja Wadiyar, the 25 th Maharaja of the Kingdom of Mysore, was an exceptional ruler and able administrator. He was also a noted philosopher, music exponent, political thinker and philanthropist. When India won independence, he was the first among the rulers of India’s princely states to accept the Instrument of Accession. The Maharaja signed it on 9th August, 1947 and the Union Government accepted it on 16th August. He should be thus regarded as the icon of India’s transition to democracy. His pioneering contribution to the unity and integrity of the newly independent nation will never be forgotten.


    The President said that Maharaja Jayachamaraja Wadiyar was not only an exceptional scholar of Indian philosophy himself but also promoted scholarship through the ‘Jayachamaraja Grantha Ratna Mala’. His support for entrepreneurship is also an inspiring story. As the ruler of the Mysore state, he actively encouraged the establishment of an industrial facility in Bengaluru by a company called Hindustan Aircraft in 1940 which become Hindustan Aeronautics.


    The President was happy to note that the Maharaja gifted the magnificent Cheluvamba Mansion in Mysore to the Government to start the Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI). He said that Maharaja’s similar donations helped the government set up the National Tuberculosis Institute in Bangalore and the All India Institute of Speech and Hearing at Mysore.


    The President said that legendary leaders like Maharaja Wadiyar have shaped the life we lead today. The best tribute we can pay him on the occasion of his birth centenary is to emulate his values and his vision in our daily lives.


    Click here to see President's Speech


    ***


    VRRK/SH/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1587786) Visitor Counter : 585