      Ministry of Home Affairs

      All India Conference of State Coordinators, Directors of Census Operations for Census of India 2021 and updation of National Population Register in the country
      Posted On: 10 OCT 2019 9:00PM by PIB Delhi


    An all India conference of State coordinators & Directors of Census Operations for Census of India 2021 & updation of National Population Register (NPR) in the country was held in New Delhi under the chairmanship of Dr. Vivek Joshi, Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India. The event was attended by senior State Government officers & DCO officers.


    The aim of the event was to interact with the attending officers to help them understand the preparation for Census 2021 (for both the phases- house listing and population enumeration), eliminate any doubts regarding the same and have an interactive session on suggestions for improvement. To disseminate information on different aspects of Census, presentations were given to the State coordinators & Directors of Census Operations.


    The event began with an inaugural address from Dr Joshi & further discussions were carried out on the role of different States for Census 2021, support being provided to the States by the central government and the support expected by the States to run the Census process seamlessly. Senior officials were also explained about logistics involved for carrying out the Census and how dissemination of information will be done to raise awareness on Census.


    To elaborate about the Digital methodology to be used in the upcoming Census, presentations were made on Mobile App for Census (HLO, NPR & PE), Census management and monitoring portal. Along with different aspects of Census, discussion was held on updation of National Population Register (NPR) in the country.


    Training of National trainers is to start from 14th October, 2019 and the senior State officials were informed about the schedule of the training. Also, it was informed that as the training is to be scaled up from the national level till the enumerators level, the State officials should ensure everyone’s participation. This will help in avoiding gaps in the Census operation.


    *****


    VG/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587761) Visitor Counter : 682
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi