      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Golden Jubilee Edition of International Film Festival of India(IFFI) to showcase around 250 films.
      
      In a first, Films with audio description will be screened for the visually impaired : Shri Prakash Javadekar
      
      DadasahebPhalke Award winner Shri. Amitabh Bachchan’s selected films to be showcased at 50th IFFI : Union Minister
      Posted On: 06 OCT 2019 10:23AM by PIB Delhi


    The 50 th International Film Festival of India,2019 will witness over 200 best films from 76 countries, 26 feature films and 15 non feature films in Indian panorama section and around 10,000 people and film lovers are expected to participate in the golden jubilee edition. This was announced by Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting, Shri Prakash Javadekar in New Delhi today.


    The Minister also stated that as IFFI is celebrating its Golden Jubilee edition , 12 prominent films in different languages that have completed 50 years in 2019 ,will also be showcased from 20 th to 28 th November.


    “DadasahebPhalke Award winner Shri. Amitabh Bachchan’s outstanding contribution to Cinema will be honoured and celebrated through a package of his impactful and entertaining films in the 50 th edition”,said Shri Javadekar


    Indian Panorama is a flagship section of IFFI, which showcases the best of contemporary Indian Feature and Non-Feature Films of the years. This year, the Feature Film Jury was headed by acclaimed filmmaker and screenwriter Shri Priyadarshan . The Jury has chosen the film HELLARO (Gujarati) directed by Abhishek Shah as the Opening Feature Film of Indian Panorama 2019.


    The Non – Feature Jury was headed by well-known documentary Filmmaker Shri RajendraJanglay .The Non-Feature film Jury selected the film “Nooreh” directed by Ashish Pandey as the Opening non-feature film of Indian Panorama 2019.


    Enclosed is the list of feature and non-feature films.


    ***


    GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587335) Visitor Counter : 904
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati