      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      President of India Presented “Vayoshreshtha Samman – 2019” to Eminent Senior Citizens & Institutions
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2019 7:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind presented the “Vayoshreshtha Samman-2019” to the eminent senior citizens and institutions in recognition of their services towards the cause of the elderly persons to mark ‘International Day of older Persons’ at a function organized by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment here today. Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot presided over the function. Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar and Secretary, M/o SJ&E Smt. Neelam Sawhney were also present.


    Addressing on the occasion, the President said that our youth should understand that the older persons and senior citizens are our asset and accord them their due respect. He called upon people to adopt the ideals of Joint family culture and to create an atmosphere of togetherness under the guidance of older family members. He congratulated the Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment and officers of the Ministry for such a valuable awards for older persons, senior citizens and institutions working towards the cause of elderly persons. He said that Aayushman Bharat and many savings schemes of the government are very beneficial and helpful to the older persons and senior citizens.


    In his address, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot said that the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment felicitates senior citizens and older persons by conferring ‘Vayoshreshtha Samman’ every year on the eminent senior citizens and institutions in many categories in recognition of their services towards the cause of the elderly persons. Two years ago, the Ministry has started “Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana” under which physical aids and assistive living devices viz. wheel chairs, hearing aids, spectacles, support sticks etc are distributed to the older persons of Below Poverty Line category. Vayoshreshtha Samman are intended to show case the Government's concern for senior citizens and its commitment towards them with the aim of strengthening their legitimate place in the society, he added.


    Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar in his opening remarks said that the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has initiated many new programmes and schemes for the welfare of senior citizens and is committed to the overall welfare of older persons and senior citizens . ‘Vayoshreshtha Samman’ is intended to provide an opportunity to the younger generation to understand the contribution of the elderly persons in building of the society and the nation.


    Vayoshreshtha Samman is a Scheme of awards instituted by the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment and gradually upgraded to the status of National Awards, for institutions involved in rendering distinguished service for the cause of elderly persons especially indigent senior citizens and to eminent citizens in recognition of their service/achievements. These awards are presented as part of the celebration of the International Day of Older Persons (IDOP) which is celebrated every year on 1 st October. The awards are intended to be conferred on eminent senior citizens and institutions involved in rendering distinguished services for the cause of elderly persons especially indigent senior citizens. The recipients are drawn from diverse fields. The Awards are given to institutions/organisations/individuals from any part of the country. Nominations are invited from Governmental and Non-Governmental Agencies.


    As per the Scheme, nominations are invited from Ministries/Departments of the Government of India and their autonomous organisations; State Governments/UT Administrations; past recipients of Padma Award; Vayoshreshtha Samman and other National Awards in both individual and institutional categories; Members of the National Council for Senior Citizens; Renowned Apex Chambers like FICCI, CII, ASSOCHAM, NASSCOM, PHDCCI etc.


    LIST OF AWARDEES IN DIFFERENT CATEGORIES OF THE AWARD


    INSTITUTIONAL CATEGORY :


    1 . Best Institution for Research in the field of Ageing : Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences, New Delhi. The award is given to institutions with a record of outstanding work in research and dissemination of knowledge in the field of ageing. The award carries a citation, memento and cash award of Rs.5 lakhs


    2 . Best Institution for providing services to Senior Citizens and Awareness Generation : Gandhi Bhawan International Trust, Kollam, Kerala. The award is given to institutions with a record of providing services to the elderly, especially indigent senior citizens. The award carries a citation, memento and cash award of Rs.5 lakhs.


    3 . Best District Panchayat in providing services and facilities to Senior Citizens: District Panchayat, Panna, Madhya Pradesh. The award is given to the district Panchayats, which have done outstanding work for senior citizens. The award carries a citation, memento and cash award of Rs.10 lakhs.


    4 . Best Urban Local Body in providing services and facilities to Senior Citizens : Municipal Council, Unhel, Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh. The award is given to municipal bodies, which have done outstanding work for senior citizens. The award carries a citation, memento and cash award of Rs.10 lakhs.


    5. Best State in implementing the Maintenance and Welfare of parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, and providing services and facilities to Senior Citizens: The State of Tamil Nadu. The award is given to the State or Union Territories which has taken a lead in implementing various provisions of the Act and has highest percentage of settlement of claims of maintenance or best security programme for elderly. The award carries a Citation and a Memento.


    6 . Best Public Sector Organisation in promoting the wellbeing and welfare of Senior Citizens : Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO). The award is given to Public Sector Undertakings undertaking service to the community through activities under corporate social responsibility and also through programmes for retired employees. The award carries a Citation and a Memento.


    INDIVIDUAL CATEGORY:


    7. Centenarian Award : Shri Ishwarchandra Chintamani (Age-93 years.). The award is given to renowned individuals who are above ninety years and are still physically active, independent and contributing to the society. The award carries a citation, memento and cash award of Rs.2.5 lakhs.


    8. Iconic Mother Award: (a) Ms. Sharada Yashwant Date and (b) Ms. Urmila Sharma. The award is given to women senior citizens who in the face of great odds, brought up their children and supported them in being high achievers in the field of their choice. The award carries a citation, memento and cash award of Rs.2.5 lakhs.


    9 . Lifetime Achievement Award: Shri Chhajuram Sharma. The award is given to senior citizens, preferably above seventy years, who have worked in the field of ageing and made significant contribution in the field. The award carries a citation, memento and cash award of Rs.2.5 lakhs.


    10. Creative Art Award : Ms. Eli Ahmad. The award is given to the winners of national/international acclaim for their contribution to literature, theatre, cinema, music, dance, painting, sculpture, photography, etc. and who continue to be active in their field well into their old age. The award carries a citation, memento and cash award of Rs.2.5 lakhs.


    11. Sports and Adventure Award (one each for Male and Female) : (a) Ms. Anandini Darjee (Female) and (b) Shri. Hardev Singh (Male). The award is given to senior citizens who have won international acclaim and who continue to contribute in the field of sports and adventure. The award carries a citation, memento and cash award of Rs.2.5 lakhs.


    12. Courage & Bravery Award (one each for Male and Female) : (a) Dr. (Smt.) Shashi Trivedi (Female) and (b) Shri Prem Singh (Male). The award is given to senior citizens who have displayed extra ordinary courage in the face of grave danger. The award carries a citation, memento and cash award of Rs.2.5 lakhs. Normally, the Awards are not presented posthumously. However, if the death occurs subsequent to nomination having been submitted, the award may be presented posthumously.


    Click here for list of Awardees along with their Citations


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/SJ&E-03.10.2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587141) Visitor Counter : 586
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi