      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot flags off ‘Walkthan’ for Senior Citizens to mark International Day of Older Persons
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2019 12:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice & Empowerment flagged off a “Walkthan” for older persons and senior citizens to mark the International Day of Older Persons at Commonwealth Games Village Stadium, near Akshardham Mandir here this morning. The Walkthan was organised by the National Institute of Social Defence (NISD) under Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment in collaboration with Confederation of Senior Citizens Association of Delhi. Smt. Neelam Sawhney, Secretary, M/o SJ&E, Shri J.R. Gupta, Chairperson of the Confederation and many dignitaries were present. Senior citizens in a large number from all parts of Delhi took part in the Walkthan. The event consisted of Police Band performance, Cultural and musical programmes by Senior citizens and Yoga & fitness session with Police Band.


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot in his address said the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment is committed to the overall welfare of older persons and senior citizens. His Ministry has initiated many new programmes and schemes for the welfare of senior citizens. The Ministry felicitates senior citizens and older persons by conferring ‘Vayoshreshtha Samman’ every year on the eminent senior citizens and institutions in many categories in recognition of their services towards the cause of the elderly persons.


    He said that in the year 2017 the Ministry has started “Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana” under which physical aids and assistive living devices viz. wheel chairs, hearing aids, spectacles, support stickset care distributed to the older persons of below poverty line category. He said that so far 1 lakh 13 thousand Vayoshri camps had been organised where physical aids and assistive device worth Rs. 68 crore have been provided to senior citizens. This scheme has been initiated in 250 districts of the country. He urged the people especially the young generation to accord due respect to older persons.


    On the International Day of Older Persons, every year since 2005 the mass awareness event “Walkthan” is being organised by NISD. The event has a great value for awareness about welfare of Senior Citizens and giving a life of dignity to elderly persons. Showcasing of various positive physical activities were done like a RUN, slogan March, Yoga and fitness session. This mega event became colorful with the participation of various organizations from Delhi & NCR.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/Mo-SJ&E/03.10.2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587034) Visitor Counter : 580
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali