      Ministry of Defence

      Colour presentation by Hon’ble President of India to Army Aviation Corps
      Posted On: 10 OCT 2019 5:22PM by PIB Delhi


    In his capacity as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, the Hon'ble President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind presented colours to the Army Aviation Corps on 10 Oct 2019 in a ceremonial parade, held at Army Aviation Base, Nasik Road. The colours were received by Combat Army Aviation Training School on behalf of the Army Aviation Corps. Speaking on the occasion, he complemented the Army Aviation Corps and lauded their immense contribution towards nation building.


    Army Aviation Corps is the youngest corps of the Indian Army. However, in the last 32 years it has excelled in all spheres and proved their mettle in various operations. Immediately after its raising in 1986, the Army Aviation Corps proved its impeccable combat credentials during 'Operation Pawan' in Sri Lanka. The Siachen Glacier has been the ultimate operational frontier for the Corps since 1984. Routinely operating at 20000 feet and above in extremely challenging conditions, the highly skilled and motivated pilots of the Corps have been supporting 'Operation Meghdoot' with skill and dedication.


    The President congratulated Lieutenant General Kanwal Kumar, Director General and Colonel Commandant of Army Aviation and all ranks (both serving and retired) for their devotion to duty and professional conduct.


    The ceremony was witnessed by Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Governor of Maharashtraand various civil and military dignitaries. General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General PS Rajeshwar, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff and Lieutenant General SK Saini, GOC-in-C Southern Command alongwith a large number of serving officers and veterans witnessed the grand ceremony and helicopter fly past.


    Col Aman Anand


    PRO (Army)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587723) Visitor Counter : 359
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi