      Ministry of Tourism

      The Delhi leg of Nationwide “Paryatan Parv 2019” witnesses 5 days of colourful diversity
      Posted On: 06 OCT 2019 7:18PM by PIB Delhi


      The Delhi leg of ParyatanParv 2019 concludes in New Delhi today. The entire Rajpath lawns between Janpath and Rafi Marg came alive during the 5 day festival which witnessed a colourful array of Dance, Music and cultural performances from various parts of the country. This was the 3 rd edition of ParyatanParv.The idea of ParyatanParv is to propagate the message of ‘DekhoApna Desh’, with the objective to encourage Indians to visit various tourist destinations of the country and also to spread the message of ‘Tourism for All’. This year the ParyatanParv is dedicated to commemoration of 150 years of Mahatma Gandhi. The nationwide ParyatanParv 2019 will continue till 13 th October 2019.31 stalls of Central government ministries as well as from States and UTs were set up as part of the ParyatanParv in Delhi. 59 food stalls representing cuisines from all over the country were also setup. A multi media exhibition organised by Bureau of Outreach Communication of Ministry of Information& Broadcasting on 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi was one of the key attractions.


      A live food kitchen demonstrated some of the key traditional recipes from the states. In the backdrop of festival of Navratri, around 18 ‘Satvik Food’ stalls were setup to cater to the preferences of all type of visitors.


      As per rough estimates, more than 2.5 lakh persons visited the Paryatan Parv, it saw huge crowd during all 5 day,especially on weekends. During the Paryatan Parv a meeting of National Tourism Advisory Council (NTAC) was also held under the chairmanship of Tourism Minister Shri Prahlad Singh Patel on 4th October 2019.


      Earlier the ParyatanParv was inaugurated on 02 nd October 2019 by Minister of Environment, Forest & Climate Change and Information & Broadcasting Shri Prakash Javadekar; Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Minister of Steel, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan and Minister of State (I/C) for Tourism and Culture, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel.


      The Tourism Minister Shri Prahlad Singh Patel has said that the ParyatanParv is a multicultural platform to bring out the magnificent diversity of the country and to make people feel motivated to explore various parts of their country. He has urged the people to visit relatively less explored places of tourist interest which will help to support local economy and provide employment to the youth.


      Some of the other key highlights of the ParyatanParv 2019 are as follows –


      HIGHLIGHTS

       1. Food Court with stalls of States, North East Council, IHMs, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI)
       2. Crafts Bazaar with Handicfrafts, Handlooms and Master Crafts persons, set up by States & UTs, North East Council, TRIFED, Ministry of Textiles (DC – Handicrafts & DC – Handlooms).
       3. Theme Pavilions of States and UTs to showcase their tourism destinations and products
       4. Performances by Armed Forces Bands
       5. Cultural Performances from States/ UTs
       6. Choreographed Cultural Presentation by North Zone Cultural Centre
       7. Live Cooking Demonstrations at Kitchen Studio
       8. Yoga Demonstrations and Performances by Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, Ministry of AYUSH
       9. Digital Exhibition and Cultural Programme by Ministry of Information

      & Broadcasting on ‘150 Years of Celebrating the Mahatma’ v Khadi Village Industries Commission stall with Khadi Products

       1. Promotion of Philately by the Department of Posts with :
            + My Stamp Counter
            + Sale of Philately Stamps
            + Sale of Ancillaries
       2. Theme Pavilion highlighting ‘Swachhta’ and 150 Years of Mahatma

      Gandhi by Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

       1. Showcasing of tourism focused development being undertaken at rural clusters by the Shyama Prasad MukherjiRurban Mission (SPMRM), Ministry of Rural Development
       2. Demonstration and Promotion of Road Safety Measures by Ministry of Road Transport and Highways
       3. Promoting Consumer Awareness by Department of Consumer Affairs
       4. Other attractions : Mehendi, Magician, Puppet Shows, Karaoke, Selfie Points, Bioscope, etc.

      PARTICIPATING STATES / UTs


      Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh.


      *******


      NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587366) Visitor Counter : 589
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

4.