      Prime Minister's Office

      Translation of Prime Minister’s remarks at video inauguration of bilateral projects during the official visit of Prime Minister of Bangladesh on 5 October 2019
      Posted On: 05 OCT 2019 3:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Your excellency, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina,
    Excellencies,
    
    Friends,
    Namaskar!!
    Sabaaike Sharodeeyo Shubhechha!
    
    I am happy that for the opportunity to inaugurate three more bilateral projects with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Ji. In the past one year, we have launched 9 projects through video links. Adding the three projects of today, we have launched a dozen joint projects in a year. I congratulate the officials and citizens of both countries on this achievement.
    
    Today's three projects are in three different areas: - LPG import, vocational training and social facility. But the purpose of all three is the same. And that is - to improve the lives of our citizens. This is also the main principle of India-Bangladesh relations. The basis of the India-Bangladesh partnership is that our friendship ensures the development of every citizen of ours.
    
    The supply of bulk LPG from Bangladesh will benefit both countries. This will also increase exports, income and employment in Bangladesh. Reduction of 1500 km transportation distance will also result in economic benefits and reduced damage to the environment. The second project- Bangladesh-India Professional Skill Development Institute will prepare skilled manpower and technicians for the industrial development of Bangladesh.
    
    Excellencies,
    
    Last but not the least, the project of Vivekananda Bhavan at the Ramakrishna Mission in Dhaka, which takes inspiration from the lives of two great human beings, Swami Ramakrishna Paramahamsa and Swami Vivekananda who have indelible influence on our societies and values.
    
    Like the generosity and open spirit of Bangla culture, this mission also has a place for followers of all sects. And this mission celebrates the festival of every sect with equal fervor and vigor. The building has arrangements for accommodation of more than 100 university students and research scholars.
    
    Excellency,
    
    India prioritizes its partnership with Bangladesh. We are proud that India-Bangladesh relationship is a great example of cooperation between two friendly neighbors. I am glad that our interaction today will give more energy to our relationship.
    
    Jai Hind! Jai Bangla! Jai Bharat-Bangla Bandhutva!
    
    Thank you.
    
    Disclaimer: PM's speech was delivered in Hindi. This is an approximate translation of the speech.


    ***


    VRRK/SH/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587385) Visitor Counter : 300
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil