      Ministry of Defence

      Sixth Edition of Dilli Series Seapower Seminar Concludes at Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala
      Posted On: 18 OCT 2019 7:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The sixth edition of the Dilli Series Seapower Seminar on “ Role of Sea Power in Shaping of Nations ” concluded today, Friday, 18 October 2019 at the Indian Naval Academy (INA). Eight papers were presented during the seminar centered on the theme. An invitational talk by Vice Admiral Girish Luthra, PVSM, AVSM, VSM (Retd), former Flag Officer Commanding – in – Chief, Western Naval Command was also a highlight of the event. The event was attended by several serving and retired senior Naval Officers, eminent academicians, representatives of think tanks, defence analysts and distinguished luminaries.


    2. The seminar proceedings on day two, chaired by Commodore C Uday Bhaskar, VSM (Retd)werecentered on the topic ‘Centrality of Sea Power to Global Politics’. Midshipmen Aditya Jain, Amogh Chawla and TM Ravi Kiran of INA presented a paper on the topic ‘ Linking Geopolitics with India’s Maritime Strategy in the IOR ’. The day also sawinsightful presentations on the topics ‘ Are Sea Powers Born or Made?’ by Shri Nitin Pai (Co- founder and Director of Takshashila Institution) and ‘ China’s Global Ambitions: Understanding the Maritime Dimension’ by Dr. Jabin T Jacob (Associate Professor at Department of International Relations and Governance Studies, Shiv Nadar University). Ms Ritika Kapoor (Research Associate, National Maritime Foundation) presented a paper on the topic – ‘ Evolving Geopolitics in the Indian Ocean Region : China’s Sea Power Enhancement in Sri Lanka ’.


    3. Rear Admiral Tarun Sobti, Deputy Commandant and Chief Instructor, INA delivered the closing address and appreciated the participation of paper presenters, chairpersons and delegates for the intellectually enriching experience provided to the audience,especially cadets at INA,through the high quality deliberations.Commodore Ben H Berson, HoF Basic Science and Humanities & overall co-ordinator of Dilli Series Sea Power Seminar 2019 delivered the vote of thanks.

     1. The Indian Naval Academy christened the Annual Seminar as the ‘ Dilli’ s eries after Mount Dilli located at Ezhimala, which has been a witness to the developments of the maritime history of the region.The seminar has been an enriching experience and the ‘ Dilli’ series hopes to stimulate the curiosity of young officers and cadets about developments in the maritime domain whilst simultaneously laying a strong foundation of history.

    VM/DJ/AC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588498) Visitor Counter : 547
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

1.