      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Standing Committee chaired by Secretary Consumer Affairs holds meeting to review price and availability situation of Onions, Tomatoes and Pulses and augmenting their supplies
      Posted On: 23 OCT 2019 5:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The Standing Committee held a meeting today under the Chairmanship of Secretary, Consumer Affairs, Shri Avinash K Srivastava to review the price and availability situation of Onions, Tomatoes and Pulses and augmenting their supplies. It was attended by representatives of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, MD NAFED, Mother Dairy, Kendriya Bhandar, Representative of Delhi Government and senior officials of the Department of Consumer Affairs.


    The following key decisions were taken for reducing the price of Pulses and augmenting their supplies:

     1. Agencies like Kendriya Bhandar and Safal were advised to utilise the pulses available in the Central buffer to lower their retail prices. Kendriya Bhandar indicated that they are selling Milled Tur Dal at Rs. 86 per kilogram and can bring the price further down.
     2. Nafed has been directed to offer the Pulses either in unmilled form at market rate or in milled form to Delhi Government at prices not exceeding Rs. 82 per kilogram
     3. Nafed has also been directed to sell milled pulses to Kendriya Bhandar, Safal & NCCF at a rate between Rs. 80-85 not exceeding Rs. 85 per kilogram for retailing
     4. It was also observed that sufficient stock of Pulses are available with the Government and Nafed was directed to release Pulses from this stock in places where prices are higher than average.
     5. Delhi government was advised to check its price monitoring centres as there is a mismatch between the prices reported by them and those available with the Union Government

    The following key decisions were taken for reducing the prices and augmenting supplies of Tomatoes:

     1. It was informed that prices of Tomatoes have already moderated and are on a downward trend
     2. Mother Dairy informed that it is selling 3 different varieties of Tomatoes in Delhi priced at Rs. 30, Rs. 40 and Rs. 55 at present. The Department requested Mother Dairy to further cut their Tomato prices so as to provide additional relief to consumers. They agreed to reduce the rate by upto Rs. 2 to 3 at all of its 400 retail outlets across Delhi from 24th October, 2019 onwards.
     3. Mother Dairy also informed that it has sufficient quantities of Tomato Puree stocked at all its outlets which is a suitable and cheaper alternative for consumers
     4. Mother Dairy was advised to bring Hybrid Variety of Tomatoes with shelf life of up to 15 days to augment supplies

    The following key decisions were taken for reducing the prices & augmenting supplies of Onions:

     1. It was informed that arrival of Kharif Onions has stated picking up and prices have already started moderating. Nafed has been directed by the Department to enhance their supply to consuming centres including Delhi. Further, Mother Dairy/Safal will be provided additional stock for retailing in Delhi by up to 4 Trucks daily which will immediately have an impact on prices.
     2. Nafed informed that p ost elections in Maharashtra, the supplies from Maharashtra to consuming States are being augmented.

    *******


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588869) Visitor Counter : 369
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

2.