      Prime Minister's Office

      PM releases cultural videos marking Gandhi@150
      
      PM interacts with representatives of film and entertainment industry
      
      PM exhorts film fraternity to work towards nation building

      Posted On: 19 OCT 2019 8:25PM by PIB Delhi

    In an event organized at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg, New Delhi, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, released four cultural videos marking the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.


    The event was attended by the members of the Indian film and entertainment industry including Aamir Khan, Shahrukh Khan, Rajkumar Hirani, Kangana Ranaut, Anand L Rai, S. P. Balasubrahmanyam, Sonam Kapoor, Jackie Shroff, Sonu Nigam, Ekta Kapoor, members of Tarak Mehta group, ETV group.


    In an interactive session, Prime Minister thanked the creative heads and contributors for taking time out of their busy schedule for paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, at his personal request.


    Prime Minister urged the film and entertainment industry to channelize its energy to make entertaining, inspiring creatives that can motivate the ordinary citizens. He reminded them of their immense potential and their ability to bring about positive transformation in the society.


    Gandhi, the thought that connects the world


    Highlighting the impact of Mahatma Gandhi in the present day, PM said that if there is one thought, one person, who can establish a connect with people all over the world, it is Gandhiji.


    Recalling the Einstein challenge proposed by him, Prime Minister urged the film fraternity to use the marvel of technology to bring Gandhian thought to the forefront.


    Impact and potential of Indian Entertainment industry


    Prime Minister recalled his interaction with Chinese President in Mamallapuram, wherein the President had highlighted the popularity of Indian films like Dangal in China. He also mentioned about the popularity of Ramayana in South East Asia.


    He further exhorted the film fraternity to utilize their soft power potential to promote tourism in India.


    Future Roadmap


    Prime Minister outlined that India is going to celebrate the 75th anniversary its independence in 2022. In this regard, he requested the gathering to showcase the inspiring stories of India’s freedom struggle from 1857 to 1947 and India’s growth story from 1947 to 2022. He also underlined the plan to host an Annual International Entertainment Summit in India.


    Cinestars praise PM


    In an interactive session with the Prime Minister, actor Aamir Khan thanked the Prime Minister for igniting the idea of contributing towards the cause of propagation of Mahatma Gandhi’s message to the world.


    Noted film director Rajkumar Hirani pointed out that the video released today is one of many coming out with the theme of ‘Change Within’. He thanked the Prime Minister for his contstant inspiration, guidance and support.


    Thanking the Prime Minister for creating a platform for all the film fraternity to come together and work towards a cause, Shahrukh Khan said that such initiatives will re-introduce the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi by presenting Gandhi 2.0 to the whole world.


    Acclaimed film maker, Anand L Rai thanked PM for making the entertainment industry realize its potential towards nation building.


    Prime Minister assured the film fraternity of all the support from his government for the overall development of the entertainment industry.


    The videos, centering on the theme of 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi were conceptualized and created by Rajkumar Hirani, ETV group, Tarak Mehta group and Ministry of Culture, Government of India.


    ***


    VRRK/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1588530) Visitor Counter : 772
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada