      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution Shri Ram Vilas Paswan distributes Hindi Pakhwada Awards 2019; Says every country in the world has its own language & Hindi is the only language that can replace English in India
      Posted On: 16 OCT 2019 5:33PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan distributed the Hindi Pakhwada Awards, 2019 to the officials and employees of the Department of Consumer Affairs in Krishi Bhawan today. Shri Paswan congratulated all the winners and the participants and distributed certificates and prizes. Addressing the gathering after distribution of awards, Shri Paswan said that every country in the world has its own language. He mentioned that great leaders like Mahatma Gandhi and Subhash Chandra Bose though themselves not from Hindi speaking regions, favoured the adoption of Hindi as a National Language. They felt that Hindi has the potential to replace English in India as it is most widely used and is easily understood.


    The Union Minister said that India’s culture, tradition and language are all its heritage. He said that English was in fact the last language to come to India and it was introduced by the British to all their erstwhile colonies. Shri Paswan urged all officials and employees to promote Hindi and use it as much as possible in their day to day affairs. The Union Minster also suggested that there should be a Hindi cell which can ensure that all the work in the Ministry is being done/translated in Hindi.


    The Minister expressed happiness that the overall usage of Hindi has increased in the Ministry and congratulated all the employees for this. He urged them to keep up the momentum and use simple Hindi and not very ‘klisht’ or complicated Hindi as it becomes difficult to understand. He said that this is one of the hindrance people face and therefore it is important to use simple words that are easily understandable.


    The Secretary, Department of Consumer Affairs, Shri Avinash K Srivastava congratulated all the winners and emphasised on the importance of usage of Hindi in official work. He said that it is a matter of pride that the participation rate in the Hindi Pakhwada has been continuously rising. Shri Paswan also release a compilation of poems in Hindi with the theme ‘Betiyaan’ written by Shri Yashpal Sharma who is a Joint Director for Official Language in the Department of Consumer Affairs.


    *****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588283) Visitor Counter : 571
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali