      Ministry of Shipping

      Ministry Of Shipping Organizes 17th Meeting of Maritime States Development Council
      
      Shri Mandavia Says Over 200 Non Major Ports and a National Ports Grid Will Be Developed Soon
      
      Calls for Joint Efforts between Centre and States to Develop the Maritime Sector
      Posted On: 15 OCT 2019 6:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Shipping is working on a plan to develop a National Grid for Ports based on synergy between the Major and Minor ports in the country. Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, MoS (I/C) for Shipping and MoS Chemical and Fertilizers announced this while addressing the media after the 17 th Meeting of Maritime States Development Council (MSDC) in New Delhi today. The Minister said that there are 204 Minor ports in the country, of which only 44 are currently functional. All these ports have been centres of maritime activity in the past, and if revived, they can once again become important centres of sea trade. Shri Mandaviya said that the Government is looking at developing synergy between the Major and Minor ports so that together they can bring port led development in the country.


    The Minister of State for Shipping (Independent Charge) and Chemical & Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandaviya chairing the 17th Maritime State Development Council (MSDC) meeting in New Delhi today


    Shri Mandaviya said that a development plan for ports and National Port Grid will be ready within six months. Extensive study will be done for revival of each port, identifying the specific cargo linked to it and the downstream industry. The Centre will share the study findings with the states so that the non-functional minor ports can be developed and made functional. The Minister called for greater cooperation between the centre and the states to develop the maritime sector.


    Shri Mandaviya also said that the coastal shipping and inland waterways sector are poised to play a vital role in the development of the country. The cost effective and pollution free water transport can reduce logistics costs in the country, making Indian goods more competitive in the global markets, he said.


    The Minister further said that the Ministry of Shipping is planning expansion of port capacity through the implementation of well-conceived infrastructure development projects, increasing the efficiency of port operations through the implementation of a package of recommendations to cut time and cost, digitization of processes to reduce and finally eliminate human interface and to strongly address environment related concerns.


    He further informed that the conference discussed issues like developing common and comprehensive guidelines for inland waterways barges so that barges of different states can move seamlessly in costal waters.


    Port security was another issue that was discussed at length. This included security of both major and minor ports. Shri Mandaviya said that international levels of security would be ensured at every port in the country.


    The Minister of State for Shipping (Independent Charge) and Chemical & Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandaviya and other participants in 17th Maritime State Development Council (MSDC) meeting in New Delhi today


    The Minister also laid emphasis on the advent of cruise tourism in India and the importance of SEZs being developed at JNPT and Smart Industrial Port Cities at Kandla and Paradip. He also said that establishment of research based institutes like CEMS, CICMT at IIT, Kharagpur and NTCPWC, IIT, Madras will help the maritime industry to get indigenous research and skilled manpower.


    MSDC Background : MSDC is an apex advisory body for the development of the Maritime sector and aims to ensure integrated development of Major and non-Major Ports.. The MSDC was constituted in May, 1997 to assess in consultation with State Governments, the future development of existing and new Minor Ports by the respective Maritime States either directly or through captive users and private participation. Further, MSDC also monitors the development of minor ports, captive ports and private ports in the Maritime States with a view to ensure their integrated development with Major Ports and to assess the requirements of other infrastructure requirements like roads/rail/IWT and make suitable recommendations to the concerned Ministers.


    Chaired the 17th meeting of the Maritime States Development Council in New Delhi. In this meeting, we had fruitful discussions on various reforms and agendas which will have a positive impact on the shipping industry. pic.twitter.com/jL0BWym0gZ

    — Mansukh Mandaviya (@mansukhmandviya) October 15, 2019

    ****


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588194) Visitor Counter : 645
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali