      Ministry of Defence

      NCC, a torch bearer of Armed Forces: Raksha Rajya Mantri Shri Shripad Naik
      
      Lauds efforts of NCC in Flood Relief

      Posted On: 18 OCT 2019 2:35PM by PIB Delhi

    Raksha Rajya Mantri Shri Shripad Naik said that NCC is the torchbearer of the Armed Forces while chairing the 51 st Central Advisory Committee (CAC) of the National Cadet Corps (NCC, which met here today. Headed by the Raksha Rajya Mantri, CAC is the apex body, which advises the Government on policies regarding constitution and administration of NCC.


    The RRM commended the NCC on the performance of cadets in various spheres pertaining to training, sports, adventure, social service and community development. Shri Naik also lauded the role of NCC in propagating the ideals of secularism, national integration, selfless service and imbuing patriotic fervour amongst the youth of the nation.


    Shri Naik stated that NCC played an important role during the flood and disaster in Odisha, Bihar, Kerala and Karnataka. ‘The MoU between India and Kazakhstan and other friendly countries will help the youth from rural and semi urban to visit foreign countries on youth exchange programme,’ he added. Shri Naik expressed hope that the strength of NCC will expand to 15 lakhs by 2023 from 14 lakhs today and advised NCC to encourage more girls to join its cadre.


    The DGNCC Lt Gen Rajeev Chopra presented a detailed update on the NCC activities of the past two years, to the members of the CAC.The committee deliberated on various issues, to optimise the training efforts, so that NCC continues to perform its designated role of developing character, discipline and leadership qualities amongst the youth.


    The NCC, presently has a pan-India footprint, which includes remote areas, borders and LWE areas. The CAC reviewed the provisions, activities and initiatives to make the organisation more effective to attain its mandate.


    Raksha Rajya Mantri Shri Shripad Naik chaired the meeting, which was attended by Chief of the Army Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria, two Members of Parliament Dr SonalMansingh& Shri Kuldeep Rai Sharma, DG NCC Lieutenant General Rajeev Chopra, senior officials of the Ministry of Defence and other eminent dignitaries.


    ABB/SS/Nampi/DK/Savvy/ADA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1588441) Visitor Counter : 424
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil