      Ministry of Culture

      10th edition of ‘Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav' inaugurated by Madhya Pradesh Governor Shri Lalji Tandon in the presence of Minister of State for Culture and Tourism (I/C), Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in Jabalpur
      
      
      City witnesses mesmerizing cultural performances of celebrity and folk artists
      
      
      Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav under the Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat initiative will be celebrated till 21st October 2019
      Posted On: 14 OCT 2019 9:44PM by PIB Delhi


    To Celebrate India’s plural traditions and culture, Under Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Matrix, 10th edition of Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav was inaugurated by Governor of Madhya Pradesh, Shri Lalji Tandon in the presence of Minister of State for Culture and Tourism (I/C), Shri Prahlad Singh Patel today in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh. Mayor of Jabalpur, Dr Swati Godbole; Secretary Ministry of Culture , Shri Arun Goel; Joint Secretary, Ministry of Culture, Smt Amita Prasad Sarbhai and All 7 Directors of Zonal Cultural Centres were present in the inaugural ceremony. Ministry of Culture, Government of India is organizing week long diversified cultural carnival in the cities of Jabalpur, Sagar and Rewa of Madhya Pradesh from 14th to 21st October 2019. .


    The Governor of Madhya Pradesh, Shri Lalji Tandon appreciated Culture Minister ’ s far sightedness and efforts of officials of the Ministry to organise this Kala Sangam in a graceful manner . He drew examples from the World culture history and reminded the audience how India has retained its culture even after several invasions and attempts at colonisation, while similar crisis has grounded biggest civilizations. He concluded by saying, ‘ The Reason behind Indian Culture being timeless, is because of its foundational belief of ‘ Oneness in all ’ . He congratulated and wished the cultural festival succeeds in its goal of celebrating ‘ Unity in Diversity ’ .


    Speaking at the significant occasion, Union Minister of State for Culture and Tourism( Independent Charge) , Shri Prahlad Singh Patel thanked the Governor of Madhya Pradesh , Shri Lalji Tandon , Dignitaries, Ministerial Officers and attendees at the colourful cultural event. He said, ‘ I am delighted that, Madhya Pradesh, being the cultural capital of India is hosting the 10th chapter of the biggest cultural event of the country and a considerable count of craftsmen-artists-culture practitioners of different states of India are coming together at the heart of the country to showcase their art forms, works and exhibitions ’ . He also mentioned that he hopes the age-old and authentic art forms, born at every corner of the country, crosses our national boundaries and reaches to the farthest corner of the world bringing appreciation and honor to the nation ’ . He concluded in the lines of Mahatma Gandhi, ‘ If we are really to do something about the practitioners of Indian Culture and Art today, we need to shift our eyes towards our villages as the richest culture resides there’.


    Followed by the inaugural ceremony, unparalleled performances were presented by the 300 artists of the Zonal Culture Centers . Jabalpur audience was also enthralled with the performances of world renowned Pandit Wishwa Mohan Bhatt, Shovna Narayan and Shri Suresh Wadkar.


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588096) Visitor Counter : 364
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi