      Vice President's Secretariat

      Tap the vast potential of solar energy around the world and make solar energy affordable for all: Vice President
      
      Harness renewable sources to overcome the challenges posed by global-warming, climate change: VP
      
      Addresses the 24th SUN Meet organized by Indian Institute of Public Administration
      
      IIPA signs MoU with ISA International Solar Alliance for capacity-building of its member countries

      Posted On: 21 OCT 2019 4:14PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu today called upon policymakers and experts in the renewable energy sector to take steps to tap the vast potential of solar energy around the world and make solar energy affordable for all. He urged all the member nations of International Solar Alliance to develop solar resources and related technology so that their reliance on fossil resources is reduced.


    Speaking at the inaugural of 24 th SUN Meet - i -SUN CaP (International capacity Augmentation Programmes for the “ Sunshine Countries of ISA ” organized by the Indian Institute of Public Administration in New Delhi, the Vice President said that moving to renewables would not only ensure energy security but also help in protecting the climate and reducing pollution.


    Opining that global warming and climate change were affecting every aspect of human life and that there was an urgent need to protect the environment and ensure sustainability in development, the Vice President said that all nations must harness renewable resources to overcome the challenges posed by global-warming, climate change and pollution generated from conventional energy sources.


    The Vice President said that he wanted to see every house, institution and organization to have their own solar panels on rooftops to meet their energy demands and vastly reduce carbon footprint.


    Observing that India has huge potential to become the leader in the solar energy sector, Shri Naidu expressed happiness over the way renewable energy resources have been developed in India.


    Recalling that India and France were the founding countries of International Solar Alliance, the Vice President said that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and former French President Mr. Francois Hollande initiated the project to combine the efforts of both countries to work against climate change and promote renewable energy in place of fossil fuels.


    He said that the idea of a concrete road map towards sustainability had also been reiterated by the Prime Minister in the recent UN Climate Action Summit in New York. He said that the solar alliance would play an important role in realizing his dream of “Climate action: Time to Act Now”.


    Shri Naidu said that the ISA’s vision includes undertaking joint efforts to reduce the cost of finance and the cost of technology in producing renewable energy across the globe and also to mobilize more than USD 1000 billion of investment by 2030 for massive deployment of solar energy and pave the way for future technologies.


    The Vice President lauded IIPA for signing an MoU with International Solar Alliance for capacity-building of its member countries in the area of climate change adaptation and mitigation under ITEC-programme of Ministry of External Affairs.


    Botswana also joined the International Solar Alliance by signing ISA framework agreement in the august presence of the Vice President and Minister of State for Power and New & Renewable Energy (IC) and Skill & Entrepreneurship, Shri R. K. Singh . Ambassadors and representatives from more than 50 member countries of ISA attended the event.


    Shri T.N. Chaturvedi, Chairman, India Institute of Public Administration (IIPA), Dr. I.V. Subba Rao, Secretary, Vice President of India, Shri Shekhar Dutt, Vice Chairman, (IIPA), Shri Upendra Tripathy, Director General, ISA, Shri Surendra Nath Tripathi, Director, Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA) were among those present.


    Following is the text of the Vice President’s address-


    “Distinguished Dignitaries, Padma Vibhushan Shri T. N. Chaturvediji, Shri R. K. Singh, Minister of State for Ministry of Power and New & Renewable Energy (IC) and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Excellences,


    Sisters & Brothers,


    I am delighted to have you all for the inaugural of the 24th SUN MEET of the International Solar Alliance. As you are aware, IIPA is an autonomous academic institution of national eminence for training, research and information dissemination in streams related to Public Administration. I am happy that IIPA has become an internationally-known premier center for Training and Research in Public Administration and Good Governance.


    I am also delighted to know that IIPA has signed an MoU with International Solar Alliance for capacity-building of its member countries. IIPA is already engaged in capacity building of Indian officers as well as of many friendly countries in the area of climate change adaptation and mitigation under ITEC programme of MEA.


    I am sure that IIPA’s Centre of Environment and Climate Change will rise to the occasion and impart necessary training to the officials of the member countries of solar alliance in formulating their policies and programmes to generate solar energy.


    I would also like to recollect that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and former French President Mr. Francois Hollande had unveiled the International Solar Alliance (ISA) in 2015. France and India are the founding countries of ISA along with 121 member countries. The project was launched to combine the efforts of both countries to work against climate change and promote renewable energy in place of fossil fuels. The idea of a concrete road map towards sustainability has been reiterated by the Prime Minister in the recent UN Climate Action Summit in New York. The solar alliance will be playing an important role in realizing his dream of “Climate action: Time to Act Now”.


    ISA’s vision shows the way in this direction quite explicitly. It includes shared ambition to undertake joint efforts required to reduce the cost of finance and the cost of technology, mobilize more than USD 1000 billion of investment needed by 2030 for massive deployment of solar energy and pave the way for future technologies.


    The ISA will also identify opportunities to bring in prosperity, energy security and sustainable deployment for all the people. ISA envisages to better harness the demand for solar technologies, innovation and capacity building, among others, to make solar energy affordable to all. The idea behind the association is to develop solar resources in various countries to reduce their reliance on non-renewable resources.


    Countries which have come together for the project will identify and address gaps in their energy requirements through a collective approach. Some of the short-term priorities identified are: Assisting member countries in drafting solar policies; Encouraging collaborations in solar resource mapping in member countries and the deployment of suitable technologies; Designing training programmes for students/engineers/policymakers and others; organizing workshops, focused meetings and conferences and working with ISA member countries to strive for universal access to solar lighting.


    Clearly, all these actions require the capacity to assess the requirement and bridge the gaps in order to meet the energy requirements in each country. This implies an effective networking and learning from each other. It is expected that the ISA member countries will also establish mutually beneficial relationships with several relevant organizations, both public and private sector as well as non-member countries. I have been informed that the ISA Secretariat has put in place a very effective governance structure of the Assembly, a Standing Committee, four Regional Committees and three Subject Committees for various areas.


    I am quite confident that ISA will collectively address the energy challenges of tomorrow by scaling up the use of solar energy. I welcome all the new Members to the family and I sincerely hope that with more members joining the ISA, a more equitable socio-economic order that respects sustainability will be established. I hope that the ISA will serve as a laudable vehicle towards this goal.


    I am happy that IIPA has organised the “i-SUN CaP (International capacity Augmentation Programmes for the “Sunshine Countries of ISA”. As stated earlier, the idea behind the alliance is to develop solar resources in various countries to reduce their reliance on energy needs for fossil resources. The objective of i- Sun Cap is Capacity Augmentation of the sunshine countries and Documentation.


    It is within this context that policymakers will formulate plans to augment the capacity for successfully tapping the vast potential for solar energy around the world. I am sure that based on international experience and lessons, focus will be on solar-specific good practices. Ultimately, governments can design a suite of complementary policies that aligns most appropriately with unique national circumstances and goals.


    I am hopeful that the association of IIPA and ISA will go a long way to reach out to the ISA Member Countries in their efforts of capacity building on policy issues. I wish the 24th SUN MEET all success.


    Thank you.”


    ****


    RRK/SK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588609) Visitor Counter : 666
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi