      President's Secretariat

      President of India in Philippines; attends bilateral meetings; leads delegation level talks; says engagement with ASEAN has been, and will remain, a critical element of India’s ‘act east’ policy
      
      India and Philippines sign and exchange four agreements in the fields of maritime domain, security, tourism, science and technology and culture

      Posted On: 18 OCT 2019 8:10PM by PIB Delhi

    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind reached Manila, Philippines, yesterday (October 17, 2019) in the first leg of his visit to two nations - Philippines and Japan.


    Today (October 18, 2019), the President commenced his engagements with visit to the Rizal Park where he paid tributes to Dr Jose Rizal, the national hero of Philippines. He was also presented the ‘Key to the City’ by the Mayor of Manila City, Mr Domagoso at the Rizal Park.


    Subsequently, the President visited the Malacanan Palace where he was received by President Rodrigo Roa Duterte of Philippines and accorded a ceremonial welcome. During the one-to-one discussions, the two leaders discussed bilateral cooperation as well as regional and global issues of the day.


    Subsequently, the President led delegation-level talks between the two sides. Speaking on the occasion, the President said that as two vibrant democracies that believe in a rules-based international order, respect for international law and sovereign equality of nations, the Philippines and India are natural partners in the pursuit of their respective national development and security objectives.


    The President said that there is immense potential to further deepen the Philippines - India economic ties. The Philippines is emerging as an important focus country for India’s corporate sector. Indian companies are interested in partner Filipino companies in digital industries, innovation and start-ups, health and pharma and in the crucial area of agricultural development. India is also keen to participate in infrastructure development as well as in defence modernization of the Philippines. In both these areas, he said, Indian companies have made their mark and attained global reputation. He invited companies from the Philippines to invest in India’s transformative growth and development.


    The President said that for India, ASEAN is a region of great importance. India wants to see a strong, unified and prosperous ASEAN playing a central role in the emerging dynamic of the Indo-Pacific. Engagement with ASEAN has been, and will remain, a critical element of India’s ‘Act East’ policy and strategy.


    India and Philippines signed and exchanged four agreements in the fields of maritime domain, security, tourism, science and technology and culture in the presence of the two Presidents.


    Later in the evening, the President attended a banquet hosted in his honour by President Rodrigo Roa Duterte of Philippines. Speaking on the occasion, the President said that this year is a landmark in our bilateral journey. The President said that this visit is undertaken to celebrate the 70th anniversary of our diplomatic relations and to yet again commit ourselves to the Philippines-India bilateral partnership.


    ***


    VRRK/AK/VK


    Click here to see the Press statement made by President Kovind on the occasion


    Click here to see the speech made by President Kovind at the Banquet


    

    
    (Release ID: 1588503) Visitor Counter : 477
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi