      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister chairs the 4th meeting of the IIIT Council in New Delhi
      Posted On: 16 OCT 2019 7:44PM by PIB Delhi


    Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ chaired the 4 th meeting of the IndianInstituteofinformationTechnology(IIITs) Council in New Delhi today.At the outset, the Chairman stressed on the need of leapfrogging by IIITs in order to become world class Institutes. The IIITs should compete with the best Institutes in the world so that the international students prefer our country over others for niche courses, unique and latest curriculum and best faculty. At the same time Indian students should also get the education of international quality in the country itself.


    He also emphasized about the social responsibility of these Institutes. He exhorted the Directors to participate in the Government Schemes such as Unnat Bharat, Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat, Fit India Movements, Water Conservation, Tree Plantation, Adoption of nearby villages etc.The main decisions taken by the Council include allowing IIIT students to join Integrated M. Tech/MBA at other IIITs subject to fulfillment of minimum CPI criteria.


    The Council also approved lateral movement of students of one IIIT to another IIIT or any other foreign Institute for short periods (during summer or internship). Similarly, faculty can also move to another IIIT for a semester or half a semester in order to tide over the shortage of faculty. It was also decided to start joint degree (PhD) program with other IIITs in linewith IITs.


    The Chairman was also authorized to appoint a Director in case of vacancy for short periods, on temporary charge. Another important decision was taken by the Council to grant tuition fee waiver to PWD students. It was also decided to inculcate entrepreneurship among students. The Chairman desired that each Institute must identify or specific domain of expertise for themselves based on which their national and International branding would be done.


    Shri V K Modi, Shri Deepak Ghaisas, Prof. Sadagopan, Prof. H A Ranganath, Prof Ashok Jhunjhunwala were among the prominent persons present in the meeting. Dr. Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, Additional Secretary (Technical Education), being the Secretary of the Council, conducted the proceedings of the meeting.


    ******


    NB/AKJ/AK/OM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588318) Visitor Counter : 292
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi