      Ministry of Railways

      OTP Based Refund against Cancelled Ticket or Fully Waitlisted Dropped Ticket Booked by IRCTC Authorised Agents
      Posted On: 29 OCT 2019 4:41PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Railways introduces a new OTP based refund system for tickets booked through authorized railway ticketing agents. This is aimed to bring in a transparent and customer friendly refund system for reserved e-tickets which are cancelled or which are fully waitlisted dropped tickets. This new system will be implemented by Indian Railways PSU, Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC).


    The OTP (One time Password) will be received as SMS on the registered mobile number of the passenger (provided by the customer/passenger to the agent at the time of booking). The customer/passenger will be required to share the OTP with the agent who booked the ticket, for getting the refund amount.


    Through this user friendly facility, passenger will come to know about the exact refund amount received by agent on his behalf against cancelled ticket or fully waitlisted dropped ticket.


    The objective of the scheme is to streamline the cancellation refund process further so that cancellation amount is refunded timely to the customer by the agents.


    Customers are advised:


     1. To provide correct mobile no. of one of the passengers to the IRCTC authorised agent at the time of booking reserved rail e-tickets.

     2. To ensure that the agent records his or her mobile no. correctly at the time of booking reserved rail e-tickets.
     3. To note that only IRCTC authorised agents are permitted to book reserved rail e-tickets to the customer
     4. And to note that OTP based refund for cancelled tickets or fully waitlisted dropped tickets, will be processed only if the ticket is booked through IRCTC authorised agents.

    *****


    KSP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589462) Visitor Counter : 1164
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi
    
    
    

4.