      Ministry of Science & Technology

      New Delhi to Host First “Global Bio-India 2019” Summit from 21st - 23rd November
      Posted On: 24 OCT 2019 5:46PM by PIB Delhi


    The Global Bio-India 2019, one of the largest biotechnology stakeholders conglomeratewill be held for the first time in India at New Delhi from 21 st to 23 rd November, 2019. Announcing this at a Curtain Raiser in Delhi today, the Union Minister for Science & Technology, Earth Sciences and Health & Family Welfare, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said“India for the first time is hosting a mega event for the biotech community to attract investments, showcase our indigenous strengths and more importantly fuel the hopes and aspirations of the indigenous talent pool”.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr Harsh Vardhan expressed India’s continued commitment in scientific research, its translation and commercialization and laid emphasis on how this event would be a huge opportunity to showcase India’s strength and build new partnerships and investment opportunities.


    Echoing similar sentiments, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Dr.RenuSwarup stated "Biotech is one of the identified champion sectors in the Make in India 2.0. Our ambition for the event is to showcase the strength in the sector and let the world know India is the destination to invest”.


    A brochure of GlobalBio-India2019 was also released at the Curtain Raiser.


    The DBT, Ministry of Science & Technology, Government of India along with its Public Sector Undertaking, Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) is organizing this event.


    The event has been structured to bring together stakeholders from 30 countries, 250 start-ups, 200 exhibitors. Central and State ministries, regulatory bodies, investors, totalling to 3500 participants is anticipated.


    The event is expected to strengthen the indigenous research capabilities, bio-entrepreneurship, investments and last-mile-delivery of technology across rural India and tier-2, 3 cities.


    It is noteworthy to point that Biotechnology is recognized as the key driver for contributing to India’s USD 5Tn economy target and is identified as one of the thrust areas for driving GDP growth of our country. India is positioned today at about USD51bn and is marching towards USD150bn.


    The Summit assumes significanceas it is one of the largest biotechnology stakeholders conglomerate to be held in India for the first time.


    ***


    KSP/LV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1589093) Visitor Counter : 983
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Malayalam