      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister to pay tributes to Sardar Patel at Statue of Unity on 31st of October
      
      “Run For Unity” all over the country on the Birth Anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel
      
      Ek Lakshya - Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat

      Posted On: 30 OCT 2019 1:04PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Narendra Modi shall pay tributes to Iron Man of India Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at the Statue of Unity, Kevadiya, Gujarat on the occasion of Sardar’s Birth Anniversary, on 31 st October 2019.


    Prime Minister Modi shall also participate at the Ekta Diwas Parade, visit the Technology Demonstration Site and later interact with Civil Service Probationers at Kevadiya.


    Since 2014, October 31 st is observed as National Unity Day and people from all walks of life participate in the Run For Unity.


    In his Mann Ki Baat Programme on the 27 th of October, 2019 Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people to participate in large numbers in the ‘Run For Unity’ towards One Goal – “Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat.”


    “Friends, as you know that 31 st October every year since 2014 has been celebrated as 'National Unity Day'. This day imparts the message to protect the unity, integrity and security of our country at any cost. On 31 st October, this year too ‘Run for Unity’ is being organized like the previous years. ‘Run for Unity’ is a symbol of unison, that the nation being united, is moving in one direction and collectively aims for- One goal! Ek Bharat, Shreshth Bharat!”, he said.


    “My dear countrymen, Sardar Patel integrated the nation with the thread of unison. This mantra of unity is like a sacrament in our life and in a country like ours filled with diversities, we should continue to strengthen this mantra of unison on all paths, at every bend, and at every pit-stop. My dear countrymen, our nation has always been very proactive and alert in strengthening unity and communal harmony in the country. If we look around us, we will find many examples of individuals who have been working ceaselessly to foster communal harmony.”


    Prime Minister further said, “the last five years have witnessed - not only in Delhi but in hundreds of cities of India, union territories, state capitals, district centres, even in small cities belonging to tier two or tier three categories, innumerable men, women, be they the city folk, village folk, children, the youth, the elderly, divyang, all are participating in ‘Run for Unity’ in large numbers.”


    Stressing on the importance of a Fit India, the Prime Minister said ‘Run for Unity’ is one such unique event which is beneficial for the mind, body and soul. “During ‘Run for Unity’ not only do we have to run, but in doing so the spirit of FIT India is also reflected. We also find ourselves connected with Ek Bharat- Shrestha Bharat! And so, not just our body, but our mind and value system get integrated with ushering unity in India to take India to loftier heights! “


    A web portal runforunity.gov.in has also been launched where in one can find information about various venues for the Run For Unity, that is being organised across the country.


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589527) Visitor Counter : 1186
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Malayalam