      Election Commission

      New Arrangements Made By Election Commission of India for Prompt and Accurate Dissemination of Results of Haryana & Maharashtra Assembly Elections and Bye-Elections to 51 ACs
      Posted On: 24 OCT 2019 5:41PM by PIB Delhi


      Team ICT headed by Dr Sandeep Saxena, Sr Deputy Election Commissioner and others with Shri. Sunil Arora, Chief Election Commissioner, in front of the Election Trends TV Panel at Nirvachan Sadan, New Delhi


      I n a first, the Election Commission of India has deployed an integrated ICT counting application which gives freedom to Returning Officers spread across the country to directly compute and enter the result data on the ECI new counting application. This application allows the Returning Officers to enter table-wise data in the software, thereby considerably reducing the time and makes the results & trends data error-free.


      The counting software developed by the IT team of ECI called ENCORE (Enabling Communications on Real-time Environment) allows generation of various types of statutory reports during counting process which are mandatory for Returning Officers such as Form 20 Preparation/ Compilation of Final Result Sheet, 21C/D for Formal Declaration of Result and Form 21 E for Certificate of Return of Elections. The Returning Officer can download these system-generated reports after the counting is over and complete the statutory requirements in a hassle-free environment.


      For the first time, the Election Commission of India has launched Election Trends TV, on which the graphically-rich micro-details of trends & results are published in real-time. As and when the counting data of each round is entered after officially been declared by the Returning Officers, the data is displayed on the Election Trends TV, without any manual intervention using advanced secure technologies. These panels can be customized and configured, for display automatically in public places using large TV Panels by Returning Officers & Chief Electoral Officers.


      During today’s counting dissemination of trends and results are made with enhanced infographics and increased details through the ECI’s very popular mobile app ‘Voter Helpline App’ which is available from the Google Play Store and Apple App Store for free download. The user can bookmark their favourite candidate and closely follow the results in a comprehensive manner.


      *******


      SBS/MR/AC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589091) Visitor Counter : 796
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Malayalam