      Ministry of Education

      President of India addresses the convocation of Jamia Millia Islamia in Delhi today
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2019 6:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, graced and addressed the annual convocation of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) in New Delhi today. Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Governor of Manipur & JMI Chancellor, Dr. Najma Heptulla and Vice Chancellor, Prof. Najma Akhtar were present on this occasion.


    More than 10000 students including 350 gold medalists who passed in the year 2017 and 2018 were awarded Degrees/Diplomas. Out of 350 gold medalists, 183 are girls.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that government has been making changes in education eco-system to adapt it to contemporary challenges. One of the important objectives of the 'National Education Policy' proposed by the Ministry of Human Resource Development is to establish India as a 'knowledge super power'. The whole world is aware of the immense talent of the students of India. All educational institutions in the country have to contribute to make proper use of this talent. Special contributions are expected from prestigious institutions like 'Jamia'.


    Kindly click the link for full speech of President of India


    Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in his address assured all possible help to JMI in fulfilling its requirements.Minister praised JMI’s continuous endeavour to improve its national and international rankings and also lauded its efforts to run job-oriented courses with the help of industries.


    Recalling JMI contribution to the freedom struggle, he said that it was a matter of pride that the institution has entered into 100 years of its existence today. Shri Nishank said that the university has established its own identity by implementing Government policies and discharging its social responsibilities.


    Talking about the proposed new education policy of his Ministry, Shri Nishank said that this will lay the formation stone of new India and will provide technical, scientific and job-oriented education to girls, minorities and under-privileged sections of the society.


    Addressing the Convocation, both JMI Chancellor, Dr. Najma Heptulla and Vice Chancellor, Prof. Najma Akhtar urged the government for support in setting up a Medical College-cum-Hospital in the university.


    *****


    NB/AK/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589641) Visitor Counter : 208
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi