      President's Secretariat

      President of India graces Annual Convocation of Jamia Millia Islamia
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2019 2:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, graced and addressed the annual convocation of Jamia Millia Islamia in New Delhi today (October 30, 2019).


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that government has been making changes in education eco-system to adapt it to contemporary challenges. One of the important objectives of the 'National Education Policy' proposed by the Ministry of Human Resource Development is to establish India as a 'knowledge super power'. The whole world is aware of the immense talent of the students of India. All educational institutions in the country have to contribute to make proper use of this talent. Special contributions are expected from prestigious institutions like 'Jamia'.


    The President said that in order to connect every section of the society with development, University’s Social Responsibility (USR) like Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) needs to be emphasized. He noted that Jamia has adopted five villages under the ‘Unnat Bharat Abhiyan’. He asked Jamia if it can adopt some more villages. He said that while working for this campaign, students should go to those villages and try to understand their issues. They should make villagers aware of the schemes like cleanliness of the village, literacy, vaccination of all children and nutrition. He said that students should also provide villagers information about Central and State Government schemes. Such efforts would help the weaker sections of the society and increase students' awareness and sensitivity towards rural areas, the President pointed out.


    Among the dignitaries present on the occasion were Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Union Minister for Human Resource Development and Dr Najma Heptualla, Governor of Manipur and Chancellor of Jamia Millia Islamia.


    Hindi Speech link attached here


    ***


    VRRK/SH/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589550) Visitor Counter : 503
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali