      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways expands e-office system in its work
      
      RailTel Completes Phase-I Execution of NIC e-office for Indian Railways
      
      58 units of Indian Railwaysare using e-office for paperless work

      Posted On: 30 OCT 2019 5:03PM by PIB Delhi

    Indian Railwaysadopted e-office system to make it paperless, efficient, transparent and expeditious. The implementation of phase-I of NIC e-office suite has been completed ahead of time by RailTel under an MoU with Indian Railways in March 2019 with a mandate to complete the work by March 2020. As of 30.10.2019, RailTel has created 50000+ users in 58 establishments of Indian Railways which have adopted paperless work culture and also trained all the executives to handle the platform.


    There is an absolute transparency as anything once written on the file is archived. There is also a monitoring mechanism to check as to where the files are held up.


    This would enable quick disposal of files and systematic, timely monitoring of pending files . With above advantages, Indian Railways will be changing the work culture for providing better services to public. e-Office fosters paper-less culture which will not only save operational cost but also reduce the carbon foot print.


    e-Officeimplementation is a Mission Mode Project (MMP) under the National e-Governance Programme of the Government of India. The project aims to usher in paperless, more efficient, effective and transparent inter-government and intra-government transactions and processes. NIC e-Office is a cloud enabled software developed by National Informatics centre (NIC) that is being deployed/hosted from RailTel Tier III certified data centres at Secundrabad and Gurgaon.It is based on Central Secretariat Manual of e-Office Procedure (CSMeOP). Currently 4 modules (File Management System (eFile), Knowledge Management System (KMS) Collaboration & Messaging Services (CAMS) & Personnel Information Management System (PIMS) are part of the e-office system being implemented.


    *****


    KSP/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589592) Visitor Counter : 1312
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi