      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister congratulates those who emerged victorious in the BDC polls across Jammu, Kashmir, Leh and Ladakh.
      
      BDC polls in Jammu, Kashmir, Leh and Ladakh were conducted in a very peaceful manner : Prime Minister
      
      Posted On: 25 OCT 2019 2:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi congratulated all those who have emerged victorious in the BDC polls across Jammu, Kashmir, Leh and Ladakh. He was also delighted that the BDC polls in Jammu, Kashmir, Leh and Ladakh were conducted in a very peaceful manner.


    News that would make every Indian proud!

    
    For the first time since 1947, Block Development Council elections were held in Jammu, Kashmir, Leh and Ladakh on the 24th.
    
    The polls witnessed a historic turnout of 98%. There were over 1080 candidates in the fray in 310 blocks.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) October 25, 2019

    I am delighted to share that the BDC polls in Jammu, Kashmir, Leh and Ladakh were conducted in a very peaceful manner. There was no violence.
    
    This shows the people’s unwavering faith in democracy and the importance they accord to grassroots level governance.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) October 25, 2019

    I congratulate all those who have emerged victorious in the BDC polls across Jammu, Kashmir, Leh and Ladakh.
    
    This marks the dawn of a new and youthful leadership across the regions, which will make a monumental contribution to national progress in the times to come.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) October 25, 2019

    It would make India’s Parliament proud that due to their historic decision in August this year, the people of J&K have been able to exercise their democratic right with exceptional enthusiasm, as seen in the historic turnout of 98% that too without violence or disturbance.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) October 25, 2019

    Thanks to the decisions of the Indian Parliament, young and dynamic representatives will shape the destiny of the people of all regions of Jammu and Kashmir.
    
    I once again congratulate MPs across Party lines for the historic decisions on J&K.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) October 25, 2019

    *****


    VRRK/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1589285) Visitor Counter : 223
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil