      Prime Minister's Office

      PM celebrates Diwali with his ‘family’ - the bravehearts on the border in J&K
      Posted On: 27 OCT 2019 5:07PM by PIB Delhi


    In continuation of the tradition set in the first tenure, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today celebrated the festival of Diwali with soldiers of Indian Army at the Line of Control in Rajouri district of Jammu & Kashmir. This was the third instance of the Prime Minister celebrating the auspicious festival with the troops in Jammu & Kashmir.


    Prime Minister visited the ‘Hall of Fame’ in Rajouri and paid homage to the gallant soldiers and brave citizens who laid down their lives to protect Rajouri and Poonch sectors. He termed the Hall of Fame as ‘Parakram Bhoomi, Prerna Bhoomi, Paavan Bhoomi’.


    Later, Prime Minister visited the Pathankot airbase to meet the air warriors of the Indian Air Force .


    Addressing the soldiers, Prime Minister said that everyone endeavours to travel far and wide to celebrate the festival of Diwali with their family and likewise the PM too travelled to be with the members of his family, the brave Jawans of the Armed Forces.


    Prime Minister recalled the supreme sacrifices made by the armed forces on October 27 1947, also celebrated as Infantry Day. Hailing the valour of the Indian Defence Forces, he said they have made it possible for the Central Government to take decisions which were hitherto considered impossible. He highlighted the courage and fortitude of the forces in safeguarding national security. He thanked them on behalf of the people of the country for their monumental service.


    To pay homage to and mark their contributions, the government endeavoured to etch the landmark National War Memorial in the Capital, the Prime Minister said. He added that the increasing number of visitors to the National War Memorial shows the respect accorded by the citizens towards the contributions of armed forces.


    Prime Minister listed the steps being taken by the Government to further strengthen and modernize the Indian defence forces. He added that the Government is committed to taking steps to ensure the welfare of soldiers.


    *******


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589338) Visitor Counter : 556
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil