      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways signs Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Indian School of Business (ISB)
      
      
      The MoU signed formalizes a strategic partnership between Indian Railways and Indian School of Business (ISB)
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2019 7:19PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Railways and the Indian School of Business (ISB) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)here today for a strategic partnership. It was signed by Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman, Railway Board and Professor Rajendra Srivastava, Dean, ISB, in the presence of Railway Board Members & faculty members of ISB.


    The comprehensive MoU covers several aspects including executive education programs, developing research opportunities, developing case studies and pedagogical materials, and creating of a future-ready leadership pool for the Indian Railways.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman, Railway Board said "I am very pleased to formalize this partnership with the Indian School of Business. This strategic partnership will allow Indian Railways to build leadership talent in a rapidly changing competitive environment. The MoU will also facilitate research in areas of importance to the Railways and make the Railways an innovation and technology driven future-ready organization."


    Speaking on the occasion, Professor Rajendra Srivastava, Dean ISB said , “ The extended partnership between the Indian Railways and ISB is going to create an important milestone in the country’s developmental processes. It is important for the Railway officials to comprehend the nuances of managing the future transformations, and it is here that ISB could offer appropriate learning interventions, develop thought leadership and initiate research programmes to bring up win-win scenarios. I am sure the collaboration between the Railway Board and ISB will go a long way and will benchmark such partnerships”


    Through its Centre for Executive Education (CEE), ISB has been training the Indian Railway officers for their mid-career training requirements. To further strengthen its collaboration, the Railway Board and ISB will also jointly conduct research in areas of mutual interest and develop case studies. ISB will initiate an ‘Executive in Residence’ Programme and involve senior executives of Indian Railways to participate. Select ISB Faculty will be made available to advise the Railway Board in areas of mutual interest.


    About Indian School of Business:


    Indian School of Business (ISB) is a global business school offering world-class management education across its two campuses – Hyderabad and Mohali. The School has grown at a rapid pace over the past eighteen years since its inception and already has several notable accomplishments to its credit – it is the youngest school ever to consistently rank among the top Global MBA programmes, one among the select 100 global b-schools to have AACSB and EQUIS accreditation, one of the largest providers of Executive Education in Asia, and the most research-productive Indian management institution. A vibrant pool of research-oriented resident faculty, strong academic associations with leading global b-schools and the backing of an influential Board, have helped the ISB fast emerge as a premier global business school in the emerging markets. For details visit www.isb.edu


    ***


    KSP/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589655) Visitor Counter : 513
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi