      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Bamboo Technology Parks to be set up in the two new UTs of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh
      
      Posted On: 31 OCT 2019 6:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Dr. Jitendra Singh, Union Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region took a review meeting with officials of the Ministry and the North Eastern Council (NEC) here today, during which he announced that Bamboo Technology Parks would be set up in the two new Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. The Cane and Bamboo Technology Centre (CBTC) under NEC will implement the project, he added.


    The Minister said that a team of high level officials of the MDoNER had recently visited the erstwhile State of Jammu & Kashmir, where commercial exploitation of bamboo grown in the region was discussed with the State officials, among many other issues. It has now been decided that the model for bamboo cultivation, harvesting and utilisation currently existing in the North Eastern Region shall be replicated in the two new Union Territories to give a fillip to the sector. The project for setting up three new Bamboo Technology Parks in Jammu, Srinagar and Leh would be in consonance with the National Bamboo Mission (NBM). A Bamboo Industrial Park has already been approved to be set up in the Dima Hasao district of Assam.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh also reviewed progress of preparation of the upcoming event “ Destination North East” scheduled to be held at Varanasi from 23 rd to 26 th November, 2019. He also reviewed the progress of the projects for setting up two hostels and a convention centre for the students and people of the North Eastern Region at Jawaharlal Nehru University, Rohini and Dwarka in Delhi.


    The Secretary, Ministry of DoNER, Dr. Inder Jit Singh, Secretary, North Eastern Council (NEC), Shri Ram Muivah, and Senior Officers of the Ministry and NEC were present in the meeting.


    *****


    NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589835) Visitor Counter : 884
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi