      President's Secretariat

      Address by the Hon’ble President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind on the occasion of call on by the officers trainees of 71 RR (2018 batch) of Indian Police Service
      Posted On: 29 OCT 2019 6:28PM by PIB Delhi

     1. I am happy to welcome all of you, the officer trainees of the Indian Police Service, to Rashtrapati Bhavan. I also congratulate you on your success in the highly competitive examination and your selection in the Indian Police Service.
     1. Rule of Law is the cornerstone of the modern state; and as an enforcer of law, the Indian Police Service has a vital role to play. The entire spectrum of governance stems from Rule of Law. It has paramount importance especially in a democratic polity, where it ensures that all citizens are indeed equal. Your task ahead, then, is to enforce the law and thus uphold the very principles of democracy. It is not a small responsibility. I am confident that as All-India Service officers, wherever you serve, you will strive to serve fellow citizens of the country.
     1. The best way to serve the fellow citizens is by scrupulous adherence to the salient principles enshrined in the Constitution in rendering service to one and all. For this noble purpose, you will surely harness energies and competencies with a vision to work relentlessly for the public.
     1. When you ensure timely hearing and redressal of public grievances judiciously, you will also feel great satisfaction. It will help to be extra-sensitive to citizens’ needs and expectations. When it comes to issues concerning women, children, the poor, and vulnerable sections of society, empathy and sensitivity will be all the more necessary.
     1. Given the great responsibility on your shoulders, it is natural that people associate authority and aura with the uniformed service. I am sure you will leverage this honour for the IPS in society to check the misuse of law and instil a sense of security in the common man, while also respecting human rights of all.
     1. Moreover, the nation expects your sincere commitment and professionalism to meet the challenges of internal security posed by the emergent threats of terrorism, extremism and insurgency.
     1. We are living in the digital age, and technology is being put to use to ensure better and efficient service delivery by the police. You will be expected to use technology innovatively and serve the citizens even better.
     1. I am confident that the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) has inculcated in you not only the necessary skills for the tasks ahead but also the values like courage, uprightness, and dedication. With that learning, you will uphold, practise and propagate the highest standards of integrity and transparency in administration.
     1. As you begin your service, I have a word of advice for you. As probationers, you have been invariably on alert against any errors. You remain alive to the need for honesty and remain concerned about dedication to people. When confirmed in the service, however, you run the risk of the human weaknesses. That is when, in some cases, values start getting diluted. I advise you to guard against it. You should stick fast to the probationer’s mindset, and remain ever alert and honest in the service of the nation.

    Thank you.


    ***


    VRRK/SH/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589484) Visitor Counter : 367
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

1.