      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh reviews passing out parade of Indian Military Academy, Dehradun
      Posted On: 07 DEC 2019 6:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh reviewed the passing out parade ofIndian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun today where 377 gentlemen cadets (GCs) of 145 Regular Course, 128 Technical Graduate Course, including 71 GCs from ten friendly countries passed out from the portals of the Academy.


    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh wished all the GCs on the Armed Forces Flag Day and said, “Today, the whole country is celebrating Armed Forces Flag Day. Therefore, you should also take oath that in the coming times to come you will keep the flag of our Armed Force high at all costs and circumstances.”


    Shri Rajnath Singh said, “Pakistan, has made terrorism its state policy. Our neighbour has lost four times in direct fights; however, it is still not shying away from its sinister design.”The whole world is aware it was Pakistan where mastermind of 9/11 attacks and head of Al Qaida was found there. The whole world also aware that terrorists of Lashkar-e-Toiba, who are perpetrators of 26/11, are sitting there in Pakistan, he added.


    Exhorting the GCs the Raksha Mantri said, “Therefore, you have to be prepare yourself to fight terrorism bravely. Our government has adopted a multi-pronged strategy against terrorism, which has led to some positive results.”The GCs displayed tremendous enthusiasm, vigour and zeal, and put up an excellent show, marching to Military tunes of ‘Col Bogey’, ‘Sare Jahan Se Achha’ and ‘Kadam KadamBadhayeJa’ with pride and élan.


    Congratulating the GCs on successful completion of their training at IMA, Raksha Mantri complimented all GCs for the excellent parade, immaculate turnout as well as the crisp and energetic drill movements indicating high standards of training and discipline imbibed by the young leaders.


    Shri Rajnath Singhalso complimented the 71 Gentlemen Cadets from friendly counties, who have been in India and at IMA for one year. He said “I am sure, you as ambassadors of your country will carry back a treasure of good memories of the place and training with you and will cherish them for a lifetime. The IMA has imparted training to you which will form the bedrock for your growth both professionally and personally and will definitely strengthen the ties between our countries”.


    While addressing the Passing out Course, Shri Rajnath Singh congratulate the GCs on their being commissioned into the Indian Army in service of our great nation. He conveyed, that the country is indeed proud of each one of them who shall be Passing out from the portals of IMA and take on the challenges that will require many sacrifices, trials and tribulations. He reminded them to always keep in mind the Chetwode Motto and the Honour Code while dealing with the formidable task of being military leaders of the future. He also praised the parents of the passing out course who had motivated their wards for having chosen such a Noble Profession to serve India and stand between any threat that our country might be required to counter.


    Shri Rajnath Singh also announced that IMA will soon get two underpasses. These would cost 42.32 crore. These underpasses will enhance the security of IMA and be convenient for general public.


    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh also presented the coveted award of the Sword of Honour and Gold Medal was presented to Academy Under Officer Vinay Vilas Garad. Silver Medal for the Gentleman Cadet standing Second in the Order of Merit was presented to Senior Under Officer Peekendra Singh.Chief of Army Staff Banner was awarded to Keren Coy for standing Overall First amongst 16 companies for the Autumn Term 2019.


    ABB/Nampi/DK/MTJ/ADA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595427) Visitor Counter : 347