      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Films Division plans to observe World Environment Day in its own style - by streaming documentary films online
      Posted On: 04 JUN 2020 5:04PM by PIB Mumbai


    Living the Natural Way and Vanishing Glacier will be streamed online and will be available for free viewing on Films Division's website and YouTube Channel tomorrow, 5th June 2020.


    Film as a medium can reach wider audience and has the ability to create awareness in general public or the viewers. Films Division, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting strives to create environment awareness in public through its films, even when the cinema halls and theatres across the country remain closed inorder to fight the Pandemic.


    Living the Natural Way (78min./Sanjib Parasar) is a story about Mishing tribes living on a small island in the Brahmaputra and how changing climate and environment has shattered and challenged their traditional way of living.


    Vanishing Glacier (52min./Raja Shabir Khan) shares concern about the abnormal melting of glaciers due to global warming and its impact on environment.


    How/Where to watch?


    Those interested can watch the films online by visiting www.filmsdivision.org. The films are available under “Documentary of the Week” section. One can also watch these on Films Division's YouTube channel. Spread the word among friends and loved ones


    The World Environment Day is celebrated across the globe to create awareness and to encourage action for protection of environment and Films Division has contributed to this cause by producing, over a period of time, a number of meaningful documentary films including Public Service Announcement (PSA) shorts for screening across the cinemas to create awareness.


    RT/DL/PK


    *


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1629353) Visitor Counter : 94
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi