      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      National Informatics Centre - The Effective and Efficient backbone of E-Governance in Goa
      Posted On: 14 JUN 2020 8:23AM by PIB Mumbai


    Goa, June 14, 2020


    NIC Goa is the technology partner of Government of Goa which performs 24x7 operations of Information and communications technology and provides Infrastructure services for Government such as Video Conferencing, Data Centre, Networking and Technological support through their IT team.


    During the COVID19 pandemic, NIC Goa explored every possibility to ensure seamless availability of all the Information Technology related services to the Government. For this, NIC Goa has taken every possible measure to ensure that none of the IT related critical functions are impacted for State and Central Government Offices in Goa.


    NIC supports several state-of-the-art web and mobile applications which keep the State and Central Government offices buoyant, some of the prominent Applications supported by NIC Goa are:

      * Technical support for conducting high level Video Conferencing with Ministries.
      * Technical support for Desktop based Video Conferencing solutions for conducting official meetings at Secretariat, High Courts and District Courts.
      * Publishing and Support for the Aarogyasetu App, which is launched by Government of India to help people identifying the risk of getting infected by the COVID19.
      * NIC Goa supports the implementation Web Portal and Mobile Apps for COVID19 Reverse Transcriptase -Polymerase Chain Reaction [RT-PCR] test and Rapid antibody test App.

    In addition to the above-mentioned projects, NIC Goa also provided the technical support to set up State Food Help Line at State and District Level control Centre for Migrant Labourer Registration. Software solutions for the management of Health officials for survey which was conducted for entire Goa, and the order generation for the staff for door to door COVID Survey were also undertaken by NIC.


    COVID-19 Self Reporting PAX application for arrival and departure was introduced by NIC Goa after training at Airport & Seaport, along with this On-site technical support for the immigration clearance of Relief flights chartered from Goa was also managed by NIC Goa.


    A Web based application to issue travel permits to citizens as well as QR codes based Industrial Permits was developed at the NIC South Goa center.


    VC In-charge, Goa State Centre, District Information Officers North and South Goa, Immigration, Visa and Foreigner's Registration & Tracking (IVFRT) NIC officials provided round the clock technical support in conducting Video Conferencing and ITC related activities were of immense importance.


    NIC is closely associated with the government in different aspects of governance by establishing a nationwide state-of-the-art ICT infrastructure and services for Central Government, State Governments, UT Administrations, Districts and other Government bodies. It offers a wide range of services which includes multi gigabit nationwide networks NICNET, NKN, National Data Centres, National Cloud, pan India VC infrastructure, Command and Control Centre, multi-layered GIS based platform, Domain Registration and Webcast. This plays a significant role in delivering citizen centric e-services.


    ***


    VK


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631464) Visitor Counter : 318
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi
    
    
    

*