      Ministry of Defence

      DIAT develops Virus Neutraliser Face Mask using ayurvedic based biodegradables in form of Nanofibres
      Posted On: 15 JUN 2020 1:18PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai/Pune, 15 June 2020


    Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DU) has developed biodegradable face mask based on Nanofibres of Ayurvedic products which acts a virus neutraliser and resist the bacteria and has named it “Pavitrapati”. The mask made from herbal extracts like Neem Oil, Turmeric, Krishna Tulsi, Ajwain, Black Pepper, Gum Arabic, Clove, Sandalwood, Saffron in the fibre that provides antibacterial and anti viral properties. Keeping in view of the Ministry of Ayush guidelines, “Pavitrapati” uses additives from immunity boosting agents for self-care. The product is antibacterial, anti fungal, antiviral, porous, superhydrophobic (outer layer), hydrophilic (inner layer) and biodegradable. This technology has proved that non-woven membrane between the woven fabrics supports to block droplets, splashes, sprays, bacteria and viruses. This product shall be used routinely as a mask to protect from any type of communicable diseases through air-borne medium.


    The product was tested for air permeability / breathability as per ASTM D-737 standard, nanofibre mat porosity, biodegradability, and mechanical properties as per ASTM standards.


    The 3-layered mask provides antiviral potential because of the interaction of extract to inhibit viral neutralization. The product will be extended for infection prevention and control measures as Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and for waste management materials. This will consists of garments, gloves, gown, face protection, head cover etc. The product is foldable, and can be used as a mask in clean rooms of various classes. The fabricated samples were tested to understand the de-naturing capability of the protein molecules by NMR, and the results demonstrated that the natural herbal extracts interacted and de-natured the aminoacids. DIAT has decided to offer this technology free for cost to potential manufacturers and many firms have shown interest for the same.


    * * *


    Mahesh Iyengar/PIB Pune/DR


    ***


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631645) Visitor Counter : 265
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Telugu