      Ministry of Defence

      Cadets training wing, college of military engineering, Pune passing out parade held at CME, Pune
      Posted On: 13 JUN 2020 3:30PM by PIB Mumbai


    Cadets Training Wing (CTW), College of Military Engineering (CME), Pune was raised on 08 July 2000 with the motto of ‘Power Through Knowledge’. Presently, the Wing conducts training for Technical Entry Scheme (TES) popularly known as TES. The TES entry Gentlemen Cadets undergo one year of Basic Military Training at OTA, Gaya before arriving at CTW for engineering studies for Civil and Mechanical Engineering. The Gentlemen Cadets receive their commission after completing one year of military and three years of engineering training.


    On 13 June 2020 the drill square of Cadets Training Wing wore a spectacular look with traditional military regalia and splendour. The occasion was the Passing Out Parade of 28 Gentlemen Cadets of the Technical Entry Scheme (TES-35) including two Foreign Gentlemen Cadets of Bhutanese Army. After commissioning, 28 Gentlemen Cadets of TES-35 Course will continue their balance one year of engineering degree at CME as commissioned officers. This time the parade was conducted with restricted attendance and parents were not invited because of the prevailing situation due to COVID-19 Pandemic.


    Lieutenant General PP Malhotra, VSM, Commandant, College of Military Engineering was the Reviewing Officer of the parade. He was received by Colonel Kishor G Yewale, Commander, Cadets Training Wing.


    The Parade commenced with a general salute to the Reviewing Officer by the Gentlemen Cadets. This was followed by the presentation of awards to the medal winners Gentlemen Cadets for excellence in training. The coveted General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Army Training Command Gold Medal was awarded to PCC Rahul Chaube, the Silver Medal was awarded to PCC Vivek Kumar and the Bronze Medal was awarded to PCC Satender Pal as per their order of merit. F Platoon was awarded the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Army Training Command Banner for Spring Term 2020 for Best Overall Performance as a Platoon.


    Addressing the Parade, the General Officer congratulated the Gentlemen Cadets for their excellent deportment and drill. General Malhotra highlighted that commissioning an officer is a new beginning in their lives and exhorted the future leaders to render selfless and honourable service so as to make the Nation and Alma Mater proud. The General stressed on imbibing the virtues of military ethos, and following the Chetwodian Credo “The safety, honour and welfare of your country comes first, always and every time. The honour, welfare and comfort of the men you command come next. Your own ease, comfort and safety come last, always and every time”.


    Commandant CME, Pune ended his address by wishing the newly commissioned officers good luck and Godspeed.


    The Pipping Ceremony was carried out at Bhagat Lawns and thereafter the officers crossed the “Pehla Kadam” which was organised for the first time in history of CTW, CME.


    *****


    PIB Pune/M.Iyengar/P.Kor


    *


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631353) Visitor Counter : 219