      Ministry of Tourism

      Indiatourism Mumbai launches its International Day of Yoga Celebrations 15-21 June 2020
      Posted On: 15 JUN 2020 3:53PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai, 15 June 2020


    "Yoga began with the first person wanting to be healthy and happy all the time." - Sri Swami Satchidananda, The Yoga Sutras.


    The act of loving oneself starts from paying attention to one’s physical and mental health. Yoga and wellness is one such approach to self-love and is achieved with the unison of body, mind and soul.


    In order to manifest this message to the residents of the country, India Tourism Office Mumbai has curated a string of promotional activities for the upcoming International Day of Yoga, focusing on “Self-Love” as the sub theme under centre’s theme “Yoga @ home & Yoga with family”. These activities have been scheduled to commence from 15 th June and continue till 21 st June. With the motive to drive a self-conscious state of healthy mind and body during the lockdown, the activities have been made accessible through the virtual medium.


    The activities that are lined up starting 15 th of June are as follows:

      * Wellness Tourism Poster Design Competition for students of Institute of Travel & Tourism Management (IITTM)
      * Yoga Day Traditional Indian Healthy Food Competition for students of Central Institute of Hotel Management & Catering Technology in western & Central region
      * Regional webinars on Indiatoursim Mumbai zoom room on topics related to wellness and showcase yoga and wellness retreats in the western and central region from 15 th to 21 st June.
      * Six days yoga classes for beginners live on facebook and Instagram pages of India Tourism Mumbai by international yoga teacher Seethu TJ, founder of Ente Yoga from 15 th to 21 st June.
      * Social media promotions of various wellness centres and institutes across the western region of India.

    Indiatourism Mumbai plans to engage with the young talents of the country by organising Poster Design Competition on wellness tourism and Traditional Indian Healthy Food Competition exclusively for Indian Institute of Travel & Tourism Management (IITTM) and Central Institutes of Hotel Management & Catering Technology in western & Central region students respectively, so as to foster the involvement of youth into a lively and active occasion such as International Yoga Day.


    It also aims to spread awareness among the general public by organising expert talks on wellness and showcase various wellness centres through daily regional webinars on the Indiatoursim Mumbai Office’s Zoom room (500 pax capacity). These talks and presentations will be held daily at 05:00 pm starting from 15 th till 21 st June. Indiatourism Mumbai has roped in some of the most eminent speakers such as Shri Harish Shetty, Ranjana Balyan, Sant Shri Naam Deo Ji, Gaurav Gurgute, Dr Bati Pandey of the wellness field to speak on topics like Aharveda, Building Resilience through Mindfulness, What is YOG, Vedanta: The Essence of Indian Culture, Mental and Physical Immunity respectively. Acclaimed Travel Writer & Blogger and founder of Breathedreamgo , Mariellen Ward will talk about Travelling to India for Yoga.

      * Another very prominent initiative undertaken during the week-long celebration is conducting live yoga classes for beginners on the Indiatourism Mumbai’s official Facebook and Instagram handles. The session is will be mentored by international yoga teacher Seethu TJ, founder of Ente Yoga Udaipur , and will go live every day at 06:30 am starting from 15 th June to 21 st June. These sessions are being conducted with a hope to facilitate the practise of yoga and mindfulness among viewers and their loved ones establishing a healthy lifestyle through the virtual medium. (Facebook : @touristofficemumbai and Instagram : indiatourism_mumbai)

    Many social media posts exhibiting some of the widely known wellness institutes, retreats and centres of yoga will also go live on the official Facebook, Instagram and Twitter handles of Indiatourism Mumbai.


    The latest official blog site of India Tourism Mumbai will also be featuring some gripping stories and articles on topics related to yoga and wellness. One can simply log in to https://indiatourismmumbai.wordpress.com/ to check out these stories.


    The attempt of Indiatourism Mumbai to revitalise health during the International Day of Yoga has been shaped with great efforts to represent India’s rich heritage of yoga and wellness tourism.


    Indiatourism office, Mumbai is the Regional Office of Ministry of Tourism in Western & Central Region looks after matters relating to implementation of Government of India programs and policies for promotion of tourism in the Western & Central region in coordination with State Tourism Departments & stakeholders .


    * * *


    (Source : India Tourism, Mumbai)


    RT/DR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631661) Visitor Counter : 139
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Gujarati
    
    
    

*