      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      On Yoga Day 2020, do watch Celebrities Speak, a collage of ten short films by Films Division
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2020 3:43PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai, June 20, 2020


    On the occasion of International Day of Yoga (IDY) on 21 st June 2020, Films Division is screening a series of public awareness films under ‘Celebrities Speak…’, highlighting importance of Yoga for physical and mental well being. The multilingual collage of ten short films featuring celebrities from all over India will be streamed for 24 hours on 21 st June on Films Division's website https://filmsdivision.org/ (under Documentary of the Week section) and on Films Division's YouTube Channel https://www.youtube.com/user/FilmsDivision


    In ‘Celebrities Speak’, renowned singer, Asha Bhosle and well known artists, Kabir Bedi, Mohanlal, Mammootty, Suresh Gopi, Ramesh Aravind, Venkatesh, Rana Daggubati, Shiva Raj Kumar, Shivaji Satam, Sonali Kulkarni, Purnima Saikia, Ritabhari Chakraborty, cricketer Anil Kumble and many more share their experience of how Yoga and Pranayam help to bring balance between body, soul and mind.


    This year the IDY comes amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The health-enhancing and stress-busting benefits of Yoga are especially more relevant today. Due to the restrictions on the movement of people and a slowdown in daily activity, the IDY 2020 will focus on health rewards and on doing Yoga at home on 21 June 2020. The theme of IDY 2020 is “Yoga at Home, Yoga with Family”. T he Hon’ble Prime Minister in his Mann Ki Baat address to the nation on 31 st May had called upon one and all to participate in the ‘My Life, My Yoga’ video blogging contest for IDY 2020. Films Division is adding flavor to IDY 2020 by requesting people to practise Yoga at home and watch short films on 21 st June where celebrities exhort people to practise Yoga regularly.


    Please visit www.filmsdivision.org and click “Documentary of the Week” or follow FD YouTube Channel to enjoy the short films on Yoga. Spread the word among friends and loved ones.


    ***


    DJM (with inputs from Films Division)


    

    
    (Release ID: 1632883) Visitor Counter : 108
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi