      Ministry of Culture

      Nehru Science Centre organizes Yoga Demonstration Session in the run-up to Yoga Day 2020
      
      Setu Bandha Sarvangasana is a very suitable and useful asana in the time of COVID-19: Jawahar Bangera, Yoga exponent

      Posted On: 20 JUN 2020 1:24PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai, June 20, 2020

    An online yoga demonstration session has been organised by Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai, in the run-up to International Day of Yoga 2020. The session was conducted by renowned yoga practitioner Shri Jawahar Bangera of the Iyengar Yogashraya, Mumbai on Friday (June 19, 2020).

    
    The session demonstrated Yoga postures for the benefit of beginners. The exponent of the famed Iyengar School of Yoga started the session by chanting a hymn in praise of Patanjali, the ancient sage who authored ‘Yoga Sutras’. For the convenience of beginners who are not adequately flexible, the poses were performed using props like chairs, chains and bricks.
    
    The session started with the basic posture - Tadasana , also known as Samasthiti or mountain pose.
    
    This was followed by demonstrations of the following asanas:
      * Urdhvahastasana – The Raised Hands Pose

      * Trikonasana - The triangle pose, a standing asana.
      * Veerabhadrasana - t he hero or warrior pose
      * Ardha Uttanasana - b ending forward while standing
      * Supta padangusthasana - r eclining Hand-to-Big-Toe Pose

    Some asanas based on twisting of body were also performed, like Utthita marichyasana – It is basic to intermediate standing twist that stretches the waist, sides and hips and serves as a preparatory pose for more asanas; followed by Upavistha Konasana – The wide-angle seated forward bend pose.

    Shri Bangera also demonstrated certain advanced poses having health benefits, such as Shirshasana and Dwipada Viprita Dandasana.

    
    Setu Bandha Sarvangasana is a pose in which side chest expands. Shri Jawahar Bangera remarked that “this is a very useful pose, especially in the time of COVID-19”. This pose leads to widening of chest and abdominal extension while performing the asana .
    
    The yoga session can be viewed on the YouTube channel of Nehru Science Centre here or below.


    ***


    SC


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1632855) Visitor Counter : 73
    
    
    
    
    

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
*