      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      “Mahilao ko mila Samman, Yahi hai Ujjwala ki Pehchan” says Shri Dharmendra Pradhan
      Over 2.20 Cr LPG Connections given in 1st year of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana; surpasses target of 1.5 Cr for Financial year 2016-17
      
      Overall 3.25 Cr LPG connections given in 2016-17; Highest ever in any given year
      
      “Total LPG Consumer base increased to over 20 Cr in 2017 from 14 Cr in 2014; Over 10% growth in LPG demand”, says Petroleum Minister
      
      “4600 new LPG distributorships added in the last 3 years” – Shri Dharmendra Pradhan
      
      “Over 85% of new consumers have come back for refill under PMUY” says Petroleum Minister
      
      38% of beneficiaries under PMUY are from SC / ST Category
      
      Various efforts made by use of Digital Governance for successful implementation of PMUY
      
      Shri Pradhan says “There is 360-degree engagement and monitoring of implementation of PMUY”
      
      Safety and safe usage of LPG is our priority says Petroleum Minister
      
      “PMUY has become a social movement with the beneficiaries coming forward in large number to apply and get cylinders installed”, says Shri Prad

      Posted On: 05 MAY 2017 5:48PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar

    Minister of State (I/C) for Petroleum and Natural gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan addressed the media on the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), a flagship scheme of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas here today.


    Shri Pradhan said that the PMUY has surpassed the targets for the financial year 2016-17 in terms of installing new connections. Over 2.20 Crore connections have been given in the first year of its launch scheme to BPL families as per the SECC 2011 data. This has surpassed the target of 1.5 Cr connections for the financial year. PMUY was launched on 1st May, 2016 at Ballia, Uttar Pradesh by Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi.


    In the financial year 2016-17, Oil Marketing Companies have given 3.25 Cr new connections across the country. This is the highest ever LPG connections released in any given year. Today the total number of active LPG consumer has crossed 20 Crore. This has been a quantum jump from 14 Cr in the year 2014 he said.


    Shri Pradhan said that the LPG demand in the country has registered a growth rate of more than 10%. More than 4,600 new distributors have been added in the last 3 years which have come up primarily in rural areas.


    Speaking on the key features of implementation of PMUY, Shri Pradhan said that 85% of the new consumers have come back for a refill. About 38% of the beneficiaries in PMUY are from SC/ST category. He added that PMUY has been implemented in a participatory mode involving beneficiaries, elected representatives, distinguished personalities, local administration etc. A differential communication strategy to popularize the scheme as well as educating beneficiaries on safety norms through regional languages was carried out. There is a 360-degree engagement and also monitoring of the implementation of the scheme. Shri Pradhan said PMUY has become a social movement with the beneficiaries coming forward in large number to apply and get the cylinders installed.


    The Petroleum Minister also highlighted the efforts made by the Ministry and OMCs by the use of Digital Governance in the execution of the PMUY Scheme. Activities like Digitally aided identification and selection of beneficiaries of Ujjwala; Digital filing of KYC of Ujjwala beneficiaries; transfer of Subsidy to all PAHAL beneficiaries digitally without human interference; Monitoring of Ujjwala implementation on daily basis using IT enabled dashboard; Identification of new locations to set up LPG distributorships through use of technology; Online Application and Online draws have been carried out by the Ministry and Oil Marketing Companies for successful execution of this scheme.


    The Minister laid emphasis on the efforts made by District Nodal Officers (DNOs) from Oil Marketing Companies. He said that the DNOs have been ‘foot soldiers’ at the ground level to effectively coordinate with all the stakeholders to implement the PMUY.


    The Minister also said that an exercise was undertaken to get the feedback of the beneficiaries through the district visits by Senior officials of Ministry and the Oil PSUs (over 650 districts were visited).


    Shri Pradhan laid strong emphasis on safety and safe usage of LPG. He said measures like installation of LPG cylinder through a Mechanic at houses of all PMUY beneficiaries was being done so that safe and correct usage of LPG can be explained to the beneficiaries. Safety Clinics/Camps are being organized on a regular basis Pan-India for the beneficiaries to make them aware of the safe usage of LPG also.


    The Minister concluded that through PMUY “Mahilao ko mila Samman, Yahi hai Ujjwala ki Pehchan”.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491180) Visitor Counter : 180