      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Short Film Competition on Divyangjan Sashaktikaran-2017
      Posted On: 17 JUL 2017 5:04PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) (DEPwD), Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt of India is organising ‘Short Film Competition on Divyangjan Sashaktikaran-2017’ in association with Directorate of Film Festivals (DFF), Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Govt. of India.


    The competition is being organised in order to create awareness on Accessible India Campaign and to promote various schemes of DEPwD among common masses. The Department invites entries from common citizens. The participants may submit their entries shot with any electronic devices in HD format only.


    The last date of submission of application is August 8, 2017. The applications are invited in three categories viz ‘Short Documentaries’ of up to 30 minutes duration, ‘Short Films’ of upto 5 minutes duration and ‘TV Spots’ (Television Commercials) of up to 50 seconds.


    The ‘Short Documentaries’ and ‘TV Spots’ should be based on Accessible India Campaign theme while ‘Short Films’ could be made on various schemes of DEPwD viz: Fellowship and Scholarship; Beneficiaries of Cochlear Implant, Distribution of Assistive Devices and Tri-cycle under Assistance to Disabled Persons for Purchase / Fitting of Aids and Appliances (ADIP Scheme); loan beneficiaries of National Handicapped Finance And Development Corporation (NHFDC); beneficiaries of Accessible Buildings under Scheme for Implementation of Persons with Disabilities Act (SIPDA); beneficiaries of NGOs taking grant –in-aid under Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation Scheme (DDRS) and various skill development initiatives of the DEPwD for Persons with Disabilities.


    The ‘Short Film Competition on Divyangjan Sashaktikaran-2017’ will carry First and Second Prize of Rs. 5,00,000 and Rs. 3,00,000 respectively in ‘Short Documentary’ and ‘TV Spots’ categories while ‘Short Film’ category will carry only one prize of Rs. 4,00,000 for each scheme. The participants may download application form along with authorization letter and rules and regulations from www.disabilityaffairs.gov.in and www.dff.gov.in.


    The award function will be held tentatively on September 21, 2017 at Siri Fort Auditorium, New Delhi.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495814) Visitor Counter : 181
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati