      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      NSIC (NE), Guwahati is now Marketing Partner by Assam Bio Refinery Private Limited (ABRPL) in new venture of Bio Ethanol Project
      Posted On: 04 JUL 2019 5:30PM by PIB Guwahati


    The National Small Industries Corporation Ltd. (NSIC) has been working to promote, aid and foster the growth of micro, small and medium enterprises in the country by providing integrated support services encompassing Marketing, Technology, Finance and other services. Recently, NSIC (North East), Guwahati is appointed as Marketing Partner by Assam Bio Refinery Private Limited (ABRPL), where Numaligarh Refinery Ltd., a Public Sector Oil Company in Assam has 50% stake in new venture of Bio Ethanol Project .


    Under this project, ABRPL is planning to source bamboo from various states of North East like Assam, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya and set up chip processing units in strategic locations with an aim to create & develop new entrepreneurs of these regions. Chipping units will be paid for chipping of raw bamboo supplied by the bamboo growers as per their area of operations, wherein NSIC plays an important role by facilitating the selected Local Level Entrepreneurs to set up the necessary infrastructure for success of the mission/project.


    With the implementation of the project, two leading companies will be able to create maximum MSME entrepreneurs and also generate new employment opportunities in the North East Region. Expected total engagement of direct, indirect, contractual and new entrepreneurs will be approximately 6350 by September 2021 and another 15000 more engagement by 2026.


    NSIC is also supporting & assisting the MSMEs in the states of North East Region through its various schemes under Credit Support, Marketing supports, Skill Development Training to the unemployed youths through Incubation Training Centre since last few decades.


    NSIC is facilitating and serving different types of raw materials to the MSMEs by entering into and tying up with Central and State level PSUs and Corporates for raw materials like – Aluminum, Iron & Steel, Bitumen, Emulsion, Cement, Copper, Paraffin Wax, Coal etc. to enable MSMEs to get continuous supply of raw materials at reasonable price.


    Picture – Shri Ram Mohan Mishra, CMD, NSIC & AS&DC (MSME) &


    Dr. Avinash Choudhary, Zonal General Manager, NSIC (NER)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577307) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese