      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      
      Water Resource Minister Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat reviews flood situation in State
      251.55 Cr. Released by the Centre for flood relief
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2019 6:38PM by PIB Guwahati


    Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union Minister, Jal Shakti visited the State today for a first hand assessment of the flood situation. The Minister was asked to visit the State by the PM Shri Narendra Modi after he talked to the CM, Shri Sarbananda Sonowal and took brief on the flood situation in the State.


    The Union Minister today reviewed the situation in the State in the Presence of the CM Shri Sarbananda Sonowal, Shri Keshab Mahanta, Minister of Water Resources, Govt. of Assam, Shri Bhabesh Kalita, Minister of State for Revenue & Disaster Management, Govt. of Assam, Shri Alok Kumar, IAS, Chief Secretary, Govt. of Assam, and other senior officials of the State Government at a meeting in the office of the Regional Executive Director, Airport Authority of India, LGBI Airport, Guwahati.


    CM Shri Sarbananda Sonowal requested the Union Minister to take early steps for constitution of North East Water Management Authority recommended by High level Committee headed by Vice Chairman of Niti Ayog. He also requested to include river erosion in the list of admissible natural calamities under SDRF. The Govt. of Assam will submit an interim Memorandum shortly on the damaged caused. The Union Minister assured that a Central Team will visit the State soon to assess & verify the report.


    Shri Sonowal said, “We are taking all possible steps to provide assistance to the flood affected people as per the norms. I have been constantly reviewing the situation and I request all Ministers, MPs, MLAs & representatives of local bodies to keep a close watch on the situation and render necessary assistance.” Further, he added that he has directed all Deputy Commissioners to provide sufficient relief materials and make arrangements for drinking water, baby food, medical teams and medicines. Funds amounting to Rs. 75.95 Crore have been released so far to the districts as advance by the State Government. Further, directions have been issued to provide ex gratia to the next of kin of the deceased persons within 48 hours.


    A presentation was made by the State Government officials on the situation of flood. The State Govt. informed about the present status of the flood. As on today, total, 4,620 numbers of villages in 124 revenue circles of all 32 districts of Assam have been affected in the flood. Total 17 persons have lost their lives due to flood in various districts and 2 persons lost their lives due to landslide. This year, about 44.96 lakhs of people have been affected in the flood.


    Presently, 226 relief camps are operational with 1,01,085 inmates and 562 Relief Distribution Centres are functioning in the State. NDRF and SDRF teams have been pressed into service in the flood affected areas for search and rescue operations. NDRF teams with rescue boats have been placed in 16 locations and SDRF has been deployed in 40 locations of the State.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579039) Visitor Counter : 13
    Click Here for Related Photos
    
      Read this release in: Assamese