      PIB Headquarters

      Mass cleanliness drive and awareness campaign launched at Cochin Port
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2018 1:19PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The massive cleaning drive and awareness campaign as part of Swachhta-Hi-Seva 2018 movement was launched today at Cochin Port with the announcement of slogan – Cochin Port… Natural Port in the God’s Own Country… Swachh Port…Swachh Bharat… by Padmasree Bharat Mohanlal in the presence of Sri. A.V. Ramana, Chairman (i/c), Cochin Port Trust. The slogan was coined by the Chairman (video attached).


    Smt Soumini Jain, Hon’ble Mayor of Cochin was the chief guest on the occasion of the inauguration of the Swachhata-Hi-Seva movement and Swacchata Pakhwada held in the Conference Hall of Cochin Port Trust. A folk song on the importance of cleanliness composed by Shri P Balaram was recited and released during the function (photo attached).


    The inaugural function was followed by cleaning of the park at North End of Willingdon Island by the employees of Cochin Port Trust. Smt. C. Premakumari, Secretary, Sri. Goutam Gupta, Traffic Manager, Sri. G. Vaidyanathan, Chief Engineer, Sri. B. Bhagyanath, FA & CAO, Sri. K. Kunjali, Chief Mechanical Engineer, Capt. Joseph J. Alapatt, Dy. Conservator, Dr. Roy Thomas, Chief Medical Officer and Sri. Jog Raj, Dy. Commandant, CISF were also present.


    A Cycle Rally to spread the message of importance of cleanliness, flagged off by Shri Xavier Pius, former Indian football captain, was participated by CISF personnel of Cochin Port Trust and employees of Cochin Port Trust (photo attached).


    ‘Swachhta-Hi-Seva’ 2018 (SHS) campaign has been launched by Govt of India as a precursor to the launch of the 150 th Birthday of Mahatma Gandhi and in the run-up to the 4 th anniversary of Swachh Bharat Mission, towards realising the mission of Clean India. Cochin Port Trust has prepared an action plan for Swachhta-Hi-Seva’ campaign during 15.09.2018 to 02.10.2018.


    A mass cleaning drive has been proposed at Fort Kochi beach on 25.09.2018. Cleaning-drives involving employees of Cochin Port Trust, the members of port fraternity, members of Residents’ Association have also been planned in residential areas and important roads/public spaces like RNAS Area, Kendriya Vidyalaya School area, KPK Menon Road, Milne Road and CoPT Walkway on the coastal side of National Highway in Willingdon Island.


    Cleaning of wharves, jetties, tugs, repairing of drainages and storm water system, removal of overgrowth of vegetation at various places, beautification of gardens, planting of trees, special cleaning drive inside offices, weeding out files/records as per rule etc will also be carried out during the period.


    Divyang access will be facilitated to select toilets in the main offices of the Port. Awareness programmes are planned at different locations in the Port as well as village /residential areas and migrant labour camps on better sanitation practices like using a toilet, hand washing, health & hygiene. Street plays, flashmob, rallies, poster designing competition, slogan writing competition for employees, painting Swachhta-related graffiti on prominent walls in the Port area involving students etc will also be held during the period.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546319) Visitor Counter : 1