      PIB Headquarters

      Massive Cleaning Drive as part of ‘Swachhta-Hi-Seva’ at Cochin Port
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2018 1:23PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    As a precursor to the launch of the 150 th Birthday of Mahatma Gandhi and in the run-up to the 4 th anniversary of Swachh Bharat Mission, Cochin Port Trust is observing ‘Swachhta-Hi-Seva’ 2018 (SHS) campaign from 15.09.2018 to 02.10.2018, towards realising the mission of Clean India.


    A massive cleaning drive in the Cochin Port area and elaborate awareness programme involving the students have been planned by Cochin Port Trust for the campaign period. The Swachhta-Hi-Seva campaign will be launched by Smt Soumini Jain, Hon’ble Mayor of Cochin in the presence of Sri. A.V. Ramana, Chairman (i/c), Cochin Port Trust tomorrow (15.09.2018) at 11.00 AM at the Conference Hall of Cochin Port Trust.


    On the occasion, a Cycle Rally to spread the message of importance of cleanliness by CISF personnel of Cochin Port Trust and employees of Cochin Port Trust will be flagged off by Shri Xavier Pius, ex-Indian football player. A folk song on the importance of cleanliness composed by an employee of Cochin Port Trust will also be launched during the function.


    This year’s Swachhta Pakhwada activities of Cochin Port Trust are also coinciding with the Swachhta-Hi-Seva campaign.


    A mass cleaning drive has been proposed at Fort Kochi beach on 25.09.2018. Cleaning-drives involving employees of Cochin Port Trust, the members of port fraternity, members of Residents’ Association have also been planned in residential areas and important roads/public spaces like RNAS Area, Kendriya Vidyalaya School area, CoPT Walkway on the coastal side of National Highway in W/Island, KPK Menon Road, Milne Road in Willingdon Island.


    Cleaning of wharves, jetties, tugs, repairing of drainages and storm water system, removal of overgrowth of vegetation at various places, beautification of gardens, planting of fruit trees, special cleaning drive inside offices, weeding out files/records as per rule etc will also be carried out during the period.


    Divyang access will be facilitated to select toilets in the main offices of the Port. Awareness programmes are planned at different locations in the Port as well as village /residential areas and migrant labour camps on better sanitation practices like using a toilet, hand washing, health & hygiene. Street plays, flashmob, rallies, poster designing competition, slogan writing competition for employees, painting Swachhta-related graffiti on prominent walls in the Port area involving students etc will also be held during the period.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546321) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam