      PIB Headquarters

      SNC To Celebrate Second Anniversary of Indian Surgical Strikes
      Posted On: 24 SEP 2018 8:36PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    To commemorate the second anniversary of the Surgical Strikes carried out by India, the Southern Naval Command, Kochi will be celebrating ‘Parakram Parv’ ( Valour festival) from 28 – 30 Sep 18. A series of activities will be conducted by the Command to increase the awareness amongst general populace of the capabilities of the Armed Forces in general and Indian Navy in particular.


    The main event will be an an exhibition, which will be inaugurated by Rear Admiral RJ Nadkarni,VSM, Chief of Staff, Southern Naval Command at 1500 hrs at Lulu Mall, Edapally, Kochi on 28 Sep 18, and will be kept open for visitors till 30 Sep 18. The exhibits will include models of ships and aircraft, weapons such as torpedoes and missiles, a fully kitted up diver mannequin, cutouts displaying professional naval activities, photo boards, and other such items of general interest to the public. In addition, the exhibition will have a large screen display on which videos of the surgical strikes as well as naval operations will be shown. Visitors will get a chance to be educated on military and naval trivia, take selfies, post graffiti on a canvas wall and can also participate in snap quizzes, with the chance to win attractive prizes. The exhibition will also feature martial as well as popular music by the naval band and playing of patriotic film songs.


    In addition to the exhibition, organised visits for approximately 1500 school children and NCC to ships at Kochi as well as INS Garuda, the naval air station, will be conducted between 0930 and 1200 hrs daily from 27 - 29 Sep 18.


    A naval band performance will also be conducted on 29 Sep 18 at Fort Kochi. The band will play a variety of scores to honour the fallen service personnel who have given their lives in the service of the nation.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547162) Visitor Counter : 3