      PIB Headquarters

      Exhibition on “Parakram Parv” Inaugurated
      Posted On: 28 SEP 2018 9:06PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    An Exhibition on “Parakram Parv” (Valour Festival), was inaugurated by Rear Admiral RJ Nadkarni, VSM, the Chief of Staff, Southern Naval Command, at Lulu Mall, Kochi on 28 Sep 18 at 3:00 PM. The exhibition has a static display of various ship and aircraft, mannequins of divers, as well as naval equipment, with guides to explain the role and function of each to the visitors. In addition, a number of videos on military and naval operations – both during peace and war – are being screened throughout the duration of the exhibition which will be open to the public till the evening of 30 Sep 18.


    The inaugural function of the exhibition included naval band performing a number of patriotic songs, martial scores and other popular music. The band would also be performing on 30 Sep 18 for two hours. The Band would, in addition be performing at the Santa Cruz Ground near Vasco-da-Gama square at Fort Kochi on 29 Sep 18 from 1730-1830 hrs. The performance, on 29 Sep will culminate with paying of tribute to the fallen soldiers. The exhibition witnessed the presence of a large number of veterans from the three Services, as well as from the local population. The other highlights of the exhibition over the next two days include ‘on spot’ contests for people to win attractive prizes, commentary on the Armed Forces and 'selfie stations' with attractive backdrops for visitors.


    Speaking on the occasion, Rear Admiral RJ Nadkarni emphasised that the entire event has been planned by the Government to remind the general public about the valour and strength of the armed forces as also to instil a sense of patriotism in the youth besides paying respects to the brave soldiers who have laid their lives for the honour of the country.


    The second anniversary of the Surgical Strike carried out on terrorists' launch pads in Pak Occupied Kashmir is being commemorated as 'Parakram Parv' by conducting various activities at Kochi from 28 to 30 Sep 18.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547925) Visitor Counter : 4