      Ministry of Urban Development

      18 lakh Sample Survey reveals cities turned much cleaner in last one year
      
      
      Field inspection of 17,500 locations confirm Swacch Bharat buzz making a difference on ground
      
      Swachh Survekshan-2017 brings out impact of improved infrastructure, service delivery
      
      Sanitation Rankings of 434 cities and towns to be announced on Thursday
      
      Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu says citizens’ feedback more exciting than rankings
      Posted On: 02 MAY 2017 11:42AM by PIB Delhi


        The largest ever Sample Survey of over 18 lakh citizens has revealed that sanitation in cities and towns of the country has substantially improved during the last one year, confirming that the ‘Swachh Bharat’ buzz is making a difference on ground with people clearly perceiving a change for the better.


        Results of the ‘Swachh Survekshan-2017’ have confirmed that the efforts being made under Swachh Bharat Mission have made a positive impact on cleanliness situation in urban areas.


        In the Survey commissioned by the Ministry of Urban Development during January – February this year, over 18 lakh citizens responded to a set of six questions giving their perception of sanitation situation in cities and towns. Besides, 421 assessors of Quality Council of India have physically inspected 17,500 locations in 434 cities and towns. 2,680 residential locations, 2,680 commercial locations and 2,582 commercial and public toilets were inspected in these cities and towns for on the spot third party assessment of ground level assessment of sanitation.


        Minister of Urban Development Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu who discussed the findings of the Survey with the ministry officials and the surveyors in detail tweeted today saying : “Survey results are very encouraging. Revealed major improvement in cleanliness in last one year. Swachh Bharat buzz is reflecting on ground. Swachh Rankings of 434 cities and towns will be announced on Thursday this week. More than rankings, citizens’ perception and field reports are more exciting.”


        A total of over 37 lakh citizens responded with their feedback under the two month long Survey. After a careful verification of the responses and deletion of multiple responses, Quality Council of India that conducted the Survey have taken in to consideration over 18 lakh responses. The findings of the Swachh Survekshan-2017 are:


        -Over 83% of respondents reported their areas much cleaner than last year;


        -82% reported improvement in sanitation infrastructure and services like increased availability of litter bins and door-to-door collection of solid waste;


        -80% respondents proclaimed much better access to community and public toilets;


        -75% residential areas in 404 cities and towns found substantially clean;


        -Railway Station surroundings entirely clean in 185 cities;


        -75% of Community and Public Toilets found ventilated, well lit and had water supply;


        -Door-to-Door collection of waste being done in 80% of wards in 297 cities and towns;


        -Sweeping being done twice in 75% of notified commercial areas in 226 cities and towns;


        -GPS and RFID based tracking of vehicles transporting solid waste is being done in 166 cities and towns;


        -Sanitation staff vacancy reduced to less than 10% in 227 cities and towns; and


        -ICT based monitoring of attendance is being done in 158 cities.


        The Survey brought out the need for making the Community and Public Toilets more gender, child and differently abled friendly.


        The Questionnaire used for citizen feedback had the following components:


        1.Are you aware of Swachh Survekshan-2017 and would like to respond on sanitation in your city/town?


        Options: Yes/No


        2.Do you find your area cleaner than last year ?


        Options: Yes, very clean; Better than last year; Status quo; Worse than last year


        3. Has the availability of dust/litter bins in market places improved?


        Options: Yes, very much; Slightly improved; Not much change; Worse than last year.


        4. How is the door-to-door collection of solid waste from your house?


        Options: Much better; Slightly better; No change; Worse than last year


        5. Has the number of toilets/urinals increased ?


        Options: Yes, very much; Slightly improved; Not much change; Not at all available


        6. Has the maintenance of Community and Public Toilets improved?


        Options: Yes, much better; Slightly better; Not much improvement; No change; Worse than last Year


        AAR/KM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1488963) Visitor Counter : 251