      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Shri BandaruDattatreya Launches “One IP- Two Dispensaries” and “Aadhaar Based Online Claim Submission” Schemes on International Labour Day The Government is Committed for Job Security, Wage Security and Social Security of the Workers: Shri BandaruDattatreya
      Posted On: 01 MAY 2017 4:14PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment, Shri BandaruDattatreya launched two schemes “One IP- Two Dispensaries” and “Aadhaar based Online Claim Submission” on the occasion of International Labour Day today.


    
    Under One IP- Two Dispensaries schemeESIC has given an option to an Insured Person (IP) to choose two dispensaries, one for self and another for family through an employer. This will benefit all IPs, especially migrant workers who are working in other than home State, while their families are living in their native States. Because of non-availability of option of second dispensary, the dependant members of family are often deprived of medical benefits. By introducing the concept of ‘One IP- Two Dispensaries’, IP as well as their family members would now be able to get treatment from either of the dispensaries and in case of emergency from any ESI Institution.As of now, around 3 crores IPs are covered under ESIC and total number of beneficiaries i.e. IPsand their family members is over 12 crores.


    
    Under Aadhaar based Online Claim Submission scheme all EPF Members who have activated their UAN and seeded their KYC (Aadhaar) with EPFO will be able to apply for PF final settlement (form19), Pension withdrawal benefit (Form10-C) and PF part withdrawal (Form31) from the their UAN Interface directly. The three forms collectively form more than 80% of EPFO’s claim workload.Members can complete the whole process online and they neither need to interact with the employer nor with the EPFO field office to submit online claim.They are not required to give any supporting document while preferring online PF part withdrawal case. Member’s applying online will be taken as his self-declaration for preferring the advance claim.


    
    Launching the schemes Shri BandaruDattatreya said that the Government has recognised the importance of labour and the contribution of workers and is dedicated to their welfare. It is ensuring job security, wage security and social security to them.The Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment said that the Governmentis trying to provide social security to the workers of unorganised sector also. He said that in the recently launched scheme ‘SPREE’ by ESIC the new accounts of 77 lakh individuals and 66 thousand establishments have been opened and EPFO has also added around 50 lakhs new accounts in its recently launch scheme. 34 million registrations havealready been done on National Career Service (NCS) Portal.


    
    Earlier, Smt. M. Sathiyavathy, Secretary, Labour and Employment said that the ministry has undertaken many steps for the welfare of workers. The Ministry is also rationalising the labour laws for the ease of business. She said that upgradation of skill is necessary for the job opportunity.


    
    *****


    
    BCK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488914) Visitor Counter : 234