      Ministry of Urban Development

      Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu to review progress of urban sector schemes in Karnataka tomorrow
      
      
      Centre approved about Rs.25,000 cr investment in urban infrastructure in the State in last 3 yrs

      Posted On: 01 MAY 2017 6:45PM by PIB Delhi

    

    Minister of Urban Development and Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu will review progress of implementation of new urban missions in Karnataka tomorrow. Shri Naidu will chair the review meeting to be held in Bengaluru.

    
    Ministers of Urban Development and Housing, Chief Secretary of Karnataka, Secretaries of both the urban ministries of Government of India, National and State level Mission Directors of new urban missions besides other senior officials of central and State Governments would be attending the review.
    
    Under different new urban missions launched during the last three years, central government approved an investment of about Rs.25,000 cr for improving urban infrastructure in Karnataka with central assistance of about Rs.9,000 cr.
    
    Under Smart City Mission, six cities of Karnataka have been included in the mission of which five cities viz., Davangere, Belgavi, Shivamogga, Mangaluru and Hubbali-Dharwad have been selected for financing smart city plans of respective cities in two rounds of competition so far held. The sixth one i.e Tumakuru is participating in the third round of competition. Bengaluru has also been allowed to participate in the competition.
    
    Investments approved under Smart City Plans are: Belgavi-Rs.3,534 cr, Hubbali-Dharwad-Rs.2,227 cr, Mangaluru-Rs.2,001 cr, Shivamogga-Rs.1,517 cr and Davanagere-Rs.1,307 cr. Central assistance of Rs.500 cr per each city is provided under this mission.
    
    Under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), centre has approved a total investment of Rs.4,971 cr with central assistance of Rs. 2,319 cr for improving basic urban infrastructure in 27 mission cities. These include; Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Mysuru, Gulbarga, Bellary, Belgaum, Bidar, Tumakuru and Hasan. Provision of water taps to all urban households in the mission cities and improving water supply to the normative 135 litres per day is accorded priority under this mission followed by expansion of sewerage and drainage networks, non-motorised transport and open spaces.
    
    Badami is among the 12 cities in the country in Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY). An investment of Rs.22.26 is envisaged for improving heritage related infrastructure in Badami.
    
    Under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban), construction of 1,46,548 affordable houses for urban poor in Karnataka has so far been approved by the centre with an investment of Rs.6,288 cr for which central assistance of Rs. 2,492 cr has been approved.
    
    Shri Venkaiah Naidu will review progress in respect of all these new initiatives.
    
    AAR/KM/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488951) Visitor Counter : 135