      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Ministry of Skill Development invites invited comments/ suggestions of the public on the Sharada Prasad Committee constituted to Review, Rationalize and Optimize the Functioning of Sector Skill Councils
      Posted On: 02 MAY 2017 3:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Skill Development has invited comments/ suggestions of the public on the Sharada Prasad Committee constituted to Review, Rationalize and Optimize the Functioning of Sector Skill Councils by 10th of this month. The report has already been submitted to the ministry recently. The same has also been put up in public domain on 25th April, 2017 for engaging the stake holders for Rationalization & Optimization of the Functioning of the Sector Skill Council. The Report is available at http://msde.gov.in/report-ssc.html.


    
    The Report is in three volumes. Volume I is the main report which deals with the major challenges facing the vocational education and training system of the country and convergence, synergy and rationalisation of Sector Skill Councils. Volume 2 contains appendices arranged chapter-wise. Volume 3 Maps of National Classification of Occupations, 2015 with National Industrial Classification, 2008.


    
    The Ministry is now in the process of examining the Report and the recommendations made therein.


    
    Sector Skill Councils (SSCs) are industry led and industry governed bodies which have been mandated to ensure that skill development efforts being made by all the stake holders are in accordance with the actual needs of the industry and develop National Occupational Standards/Competency Standards and Qualification Packs (QPs). Presently, the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) has approved formation of 40 SSCs in different Sectors. In order to ensure convergence and optimal functioning of SSCs as per mandate given under the National Policy for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 2015, it was decided to constitute a Committee to review the functioning of the SSCs and provide a roadmap for their harmonious growth so as to ensure effective development of the skilling ecosystem.


    
    The committee was constituted by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship on 18th May 2016 for Rationalisation and Optimization of the Functioning of the Sector Skill Councils, under the Chairmanship of Sh. Sharada Prasad, Former Director General, Directorate General of Employment & Training, Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India.


    
    ****


    
    ST/IA/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488985) Visitor Counter : 132