      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Dr. Harshvardhan confers Degrees to Engineering and Technology Graduates and Post Graduate students of Panjab University
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2017 7:23PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Union Minister of Science & Technology and Earth Sciences Dr. Harshvardhan today conferred Degrees to the students of Dr. Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Institute of Chemical Engineering & Technology(Dr.SSB UICET), University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) at Panjab University and University Institute of Engineering & Technology Swami Sarvanand Giri Panjab University Regional Centre, Hoshiarpur.

    
    Dr. Harshvardhan in his address at the Degree Award Ceremony in Chandigarh today called upon the outgoing graduates to bring laurels to the country. He said there is need for them to exhibit greater professionalism as they go into field for work.
    
    Panjab University is one of the oldest University and was established in 1882 as University of Punjab at Lahore.
    
    Dr. Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering & Technology (UICET) was established in the campus of Panjab University in 1958 in collaboration with Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago. Since its inception in 1958, the Institute has established itself as a premier institution engaged in imparting quality technological education and research and development activities.
    
    The University Institute of Engineering & Technology (UIET), Chandigarh is an in-campus engineering institute of Panjab University. It was established in 2002 as Constituent Institute with a vision to be a front runner in Engineering Education & Research to produce competent professionals in Engineering & Technology and offers courses at Graduate, Post graduate and Doctoral level programmes in various fields of Engineering.
    
    More than 800 students graduate from these institutes every year. These students are technologists of tomorrow and trained to contribute towards nation building. They are motivated to work on regional problems and work hard to realize their dreams.

    ****


    
    
    RDS/nb
    

    
    (Release ID: 1489487) Visitor Counter : 138