      Ministry of Home Affairs

      State review of Left Wing Extremism situation by Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh
      Posted On: 07 MAY 2017 4:09PM by PIB Delhi

      
      The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh will review the situation in Left Wing Extremism affected States here tomorrow. The Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and West Bengal have been invited to attend the meeting. The Union Ministers in charge of Ministries of MoRTH, Railways, Civil Aviation, MoRD, Power, New & Renewable Energy and Telecom will also attend. A holistic review of the situation will be undertaken covering a wide canvas of security and development issues, particularly infrastructure building.
      
      The Government of India has a multi-pronged strategy centred around security, development and ensuring rights and entitlements of local communities etc. The Centre has been providing assistance to States in terms of CAPF Battalions, intelligence, training and capacity building of State Police Forces. It is also assisting the States through Schemes that support building of infrastructure, specially Road, Railways and Power etc. The meeting will focus on devising new strategies to maintain the momentum achieved in 2016, notwithstanding a couple of incidents. Development issues will also be discussed with a view to ensure rapid development of LWE affected areas.
      
      The day-long meeting will include two sessions to discuss upon operational issues like role of States in Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) Operations, raising and employment of India Reserve (IR) Battalions and Special India Reserve Battalion (SIRB), etc, capacity building and Intelligence issues like vacancies in State Police Forces, capacity building of State Intelligence Units, etc and other Ministry-wise related matters.
      
      The meeting will also be attended by the Secretaries of the Central Ministries, Chief Secretaries and DGsP of the LWE affected states.

      ******

      
      
      KSD/NK/PK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1489407) Visitor Counter : 91