      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      The facility of online registration of Child Care Institutions launched by the WCD Minister, Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi
      Posted On: 05 MAY 2017 5:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The facility of online registration of Child Care Institutions across the country was launched by the Minister of Women & Child Development, Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi in New Delhi today. The Minister of State for Women & Child Development, Smt Krishna Raj, Secretary WCD, Ms. Leena Nair and senior officers of the Ministry, CARA and Childline among others were present on the occasion.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi said that online registration of CCIs is a very important part of good governance. It will now make it easy for CCIs to register themselves, she added.
    
    The WCD Minister, Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi said that online registration will provide a centralized system where all the information will be readily available about the CCIs in the country. It will be possible to know on a real time basis as to how many children are available in each CCI, how many are available for adoption, which children need help and what type of assistance needs to be provided to them, she added.
    
    The Minister of State for Women & Child Development, Smt Krishna Raj said that with the new online registration process there will be transparency in the system now and it will be possible to offer greater care and protection to the children.
    
    In her introductory remarks, Secretary WCD, Ms. Leena Nair said that the new facility has been created to have a uniform system of registration for all Child Care Institutions.
    
    The module for online registration of CCIs has been developed by the WCD Ministry with the assistance of NIC. This will facilitate and streamline the functioning of State Governments/UT Administrations and set in place a uniform registration process throughout the country. In this regard the Ministry held various consultations and meetings with representatives from different States/UTs, NIC to finalize the module for registration of CCIs.
    
    The proposed system is in accordance with Rule 21 (12) of Juvenile Justice Central Model Rules 2016 which states that “The Central Government shall facilitate developing a model online system for receipt and processing of applications and grant or cancellation of registration and in the interim the systems existing in the States and Union Territories shall continue”. Further, Section 41 (1) and Section 42 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015 (JJ Act), provides for mandatory registration of all Child Care Institutions with penal provisions in case of non-compliance with imprisonment which may extend to one year or a fine of not less than one lakh rupees or both.
    
    At present there is a system of manual registration of CCIs followed by States/ UTs due to which there is no national data base on the number of CCIs being registered under the JJ Act in the country. Further there is a lack of transparency and it is difficult to monitor the Child Care Intuitions and their functioning due to lack of data available.
    
    The proposed online registration system will ease the process of registration of CCIs through an online process, end to end Information and Communication Technology enablement and ensure efficient monitoring by Central and State Governments.
    
    Some of the salient features of the online system include e-alerts to the applicants and the registration authorities, easy information sharing and online issuance of registration certificates. The Organizations willing to run CCIs will be required to register on the portal and submit their application with complete documentation online.
    
    The States/UTs need to designate one nodal officer at State level and one District level nodal officer in each of the district to make them responsible in the implementation of online registration process. Further, the States/UTs shall also designate an officer who shall be the Registration Authority at State/UT level to grant registration.

    *****


    
    
    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489327) Visitor Counter : 155