      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Minister of Finance, Defence and Corporate Affairs Shri Arun Jaitley will be leaving on a three day official visit to Japan tomorrow to participate in the Annual Meeting of Board of Governors’ of Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Spring Meeting of the Institute of International Finance (IIF) among others.
      Posted On: 05 MAY 2017 5:58PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Finance, Defence and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley is leaving on a three-day official visit early morning tomorrow, i.e. 6th May, 2017 for Japan to participate in the Annual Meeting of Board of Governors’ of Asian Development Bank (ADB) in Yokohama and Investors’ Round Table Session organised by Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) and Kotak Bank in Tokyo among others. During his visit, the Finance Minister will be accompanied by Shri Shaktikanta Das, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) and other senior officials of the Ministry of Finance among others.
    
    The Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley will arrive in the afternoon of 6th May, 2017 at Tokyo,Japan from where he will depart for Yokohama to participate in the Annual Meeting of the Board of Governors’ of ADB.
    
    On Sunday, 7th May, 2017 the Union Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will participate in the ADB Governors’ Plenary and thereafter, will have a bilateral Meeting with Mr. Taro Aso, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Japan. Later, the Finance Minister will participate in the Governors’’ Luncheon and will also meet Mr. Takehiko Nakao, ADB President on the sidelines of the ADB Annual Meeting. In the evening, the Finance Minister will leave for Tokyo.
    
    On Monday, 8th May, 2017, the Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley will participate in the Investors’ Round Table Session organised by CII and Kotak Bank in Tokyo. Thereafter, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will participate in the Interactive Session on ‘India’s Business Environment: Reforms and Opportunities’ organised by the Embassy of India in Tokyo, CII and JETRO. Later in the afternoon, the Finance Minister will participate in the Spring Meeting of the Institute of International Finance (IIF) where he will deliver the Key Note Address.
    
    In the evening on 8th May, 2017, the Union Minister of Finance, Defence and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley will meet Ms. Tomomi Inada, Minister of Defence, Japan before departing for India back home. The Finance Minister will arrive in the national capital in the morning of Tuesday, 9th May, 2017 after completing his three-day official visit to Japan.

    *****


    
    
    DSM/VKS/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489332) Visitor Counter : 115