      Ministry of Home Affairs

      First Home Affairs Dialogue between India and UK held today
      Posted On: 04 MAY 2017 4:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The First Home Affairs Dialogue between India and UK was held today. The Indian side was led by Union Home Secretary, Shri Rajiv Mehrishi and the UK delegation was led by Ms. Patsy Wilkinson, Second Permanent Secretary, Home Office, Government of UK.
    
    The meeting was held as a follow up of UK Prime Minister’s visit to India in November, 2016 and the commitment of the two Prime Ministers for enhanced and strengthened Dialogue.
    
    Both sides expressed satisfaction in matters relating to extradition of wanted persons. The process involved in matters of extradition and the need to further improve them, were also discussed.
    
    Both sides agreed to address the challenges of illegal migrants. The two sides will work together to ensure smooth return of Indians overstaying in UK subject to nationality verification.
    
    Regarding criminal data sharing and strengthening cooperation in tackling serious and organised crimes, the two sides expressed their satisfaction in the existing level of cooperation. Both sides also agreed to enhance and strengthen further the bilateral cooperation and work towards formalising the arrangements.
    
    India raised the issue of visa related difficulties faced by Indian students, skilled professional and dependents of Indian diplomats. UK side assured that this would be looked into. The UK side mentioned that it has been their constant endeavour to improve the visa process to promote people to people exchanges that exist between the two countries. The UK side also briefed about the progress regarding the Registered Travellers Scheme and great club announcements which were made during UK Prime Minister’s visit in 2016.
    
    Both India and UK laid emphasis on cooperation on anti- terrorism mechanism and to strengthen mutual support to check cyber crimes. Both sides agreed to formalise these arrangements.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489180) Visitor Counter : 85