      Election Commission

      Election Commission of India Launches National Contact Centre
      
      
      National Contact Centre toll-free No. 1800111950

      Posted On: 11 MAY 2017 8:19PM by PIB Delhi

    

    Every vote counts. And so does every voter. Serving every elector flawlessly is the commitment of Election Commission of India that it has lived up to time and again. The Commission has added another feather to its cap with the launch of National Contact Centre with a toll-free No. 1800111950. Now any citizen from any part of the country can call on the toll-free in English or Hindi with any query or complaint at any time of the day. Callers can enquire on subjects such as elections, voting dates, EPIC, electoral roll, online registration etc. and lodge a complaint by simply dialing in to the toll free no. Not only this, executives also make outbound calls for educating the electors and spreading voter awareness.


    The National Contact Centre is operated on a National Grievance Redressal System Software. This software is a single window platform to manage complaints and feedback received through calls, emails, sms and website access in an integrated and time-bound manner. Callers may connect with the executives to register a complaint and know about its status of receipt and disposal as well as to give suggestions and feedback at every step of the way.


    The Contact Centre is Commission’s step forward towards bringing about electoral reforms where citizens and officials are empowered to monitor and report any anomaly or violation of ECI instructions in the field before, during or post elections.


    Each state and UT will also soon setup and operationalize dedicated State Contact Centre (SCC) and District Contact Centre (DCC) to ensure seamless flow of information across the contact centers for handling issues/ query from citizens. National Contact Centre will build IT protocols to ensure that any call landing at NCC are properly redirected to the respective State Contact Centre.


    It is expected that on operationalization of Integrated Contact Centre, ECI will be able to provide multilingual support to all the citizens across the nation in a decentralized and integrated manner.


    ICT 2025 Vision Document


    ICT 2025 is about setting up core IT infrastructure and process to consolidate multitude of election process and functions.


    The ICT 2025 Vision Document heralds the beginning of what we call as Digitalization instead of just Digitization. Digitalization is the key strategy in ICT 2025. It is the strategy of adopting recent technologies and consolidating existing technologies in IT to make the most of the digital resources available in the Election ecosystem.


    Launch of ICT 2025 Vision Document by the Hon’ble Commission


    The ICT 2025 Projects which capitalise on Digitalization, will capture both Electoral Process and the conduct of elections. There are four major components of the ICT 2025.


    1. Integrated Software application


    2. GIS, Analytic and Integrated Contact Centre


    3. IT infrastructure including data center, IT security, disaster recovery


    4. Knowledge Management, Capacity building and social media engagement


    Further Election Commission has launched ‘Annual Report 2017’ & ‘Electoral Statistics Pocket book 2017’ & ‘IT in Elections Booklet’.


    RM/


    

    
    (Release ID: 1489692) Visitor Counter : 185
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu