      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Vijay Goel Flags Off four Clean Himalaya Expeditions to Popular Tourist Destinations
      
      Expeditions an Effort to extend Swachh Bharat Abhiyan

      Posted On: 09 MAY 2017 5:49PM by PIB Delhi

    
    

    Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Youth Affairs & Sports, Shri Vijay Goel flagged off four Clean Himalaya expeditions and a Medical Mountaineering expedition to Mt Satopanth (7075 Mtrs) at the Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF), here today. Appreciating the IMF for its efforts to promote mountaineering and allied adventure sports, Shri Goel said that such initiatives will not only help in ensuring safe practices during the conduct of adventure activities, but will also add to the skill levels of the youth, enhancing their employability, as well as instil discipline and courage in youngsters.

    
    Interacting with the team members, the Minister stressed upon the need to address environmental concerns while promoting adventure tourism. He added that adventure tourism not only contributes in transforming the youth, but also holds a lot of potential in helping in the economic growth of the country. Shri Goel also wished the team a safe and successful climb.
    
    Making a presentation on the cleaning expeditions, President IMF, Col HS Chauhan pointed out that in an effort to extend the Prime Minister’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan to the Himalayas, IMF is launching Four Himalayan Cleaning expeditions to popular destinations in Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand & Arunachal, which have been sponsored by ONGC as a part of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme.
    
    The Medical Mountaineering Expedition is a Certification course on Expedition Medicine For Mountaineers & Trekkers approved by the Medical Commission of the International Climbing and Mountaineering Federation (UIAA). The core mission of the expedition is to create an expanding pool of Holistic Mountain Leaders, capable of providing integrated basic health care, life support and rescue logistics to expeditions and the remote mountain communities until the arrival of definitive medical care.
    
    A team of 25 non-medical mountaineers and 25 trekkers led by Dr Anil Gurtoo, an experienced mountaineer and Professor, Medicine ‎ eat Lady Hardinge Medical Collegwill participate in this expedition from May 8 to June 10, 2017, which also involves lectures by specialists from leading teaching hospitals from Delhi on various medical issues faced by mountaineers at high altitudes.
    
    Secretary, Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports, Dr. A.K Dubey, President, Indian Mountaineering Foundation, Col H.S Chauhan and renowned mountaineer Major H.P.S Ahluwalia, as well as school children and young mountaineers were among those present on the occasion.
    
    Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF) is recognized by the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports as the National Apex Body to regulate mountaineering, trekking, sport climbing and allied adventure activities in the country. IMF conducts activities under the NPYAD scheme of the Ministry to promote mountaineering and land-based adventure sports among the youth of the country.

    ******


    
    
    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489548) Visitor Counter : 120