      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Shri Bandaru Duttatreya to attend the G20 Labour & Employment Ministers’ Meet in Germany on 18-19 May, 2017
      Posted On: 16 MAY 2017 6:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Bandaru Duttatreya, the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment will be leading the Indian delegation to the G20 Labour & Employment Ministers’ Meet, scheduled on 18-19, May, 2017 at Bad Neuenahr, Germany. Germany is the chair for the G20 Labour & Employment Ministers’ for the year 2017.
    
    The G20 Labour & Employment Track has been discussing topics like “Shaping the Future of Work”, “Reducing Gender Gaps in Labour Force Participation”, “Labour Market Integration of Regular Migrants and Recognized Refugees”, “Decent Work in Global Supply Chains”, and Boosting Youth Employment”. A G20 Labour and Employment Ministerial Declaration is likely to be adopted at the end of this meeting, which will be presented to the Leaders/ Head of the State summit scheduled on 7-8th July, 2017 Hamburg, Germany.
    
    Shri Bandaru Duttatreya is expected to advocate policy interventions aimed at promoting labour mobility for skilled youth, incentivizing MSMEs as well as responsibility of developed states in the Global Supply Chains for capacity building, skill development and technology transfer to promote more inclusive and fair globalization, at the forum of G20. He will also outline India’s recent initiatives for the welfare of its workers including those related to employment promotion, social security, Maternity benefit and child labour.
    
    Shri Bandaru Duttatreya accompanied by Smt. M. Sathiyavathy, Secretary (the Ministry of Labour & Employment), Shri Rajit Punhani, Joint Secretary & Director General, Labour Welfare, Dr. S.K. Sashi Kumar, Senior Fellow, Dr. V.V.Giri, National Labour Institute, Noida and Shri C. Sudarshan Reddy, Private Secretary to the Labour & Employment Minister.

    *****


    
    
    BCK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489986) Visitor Counter : 56