      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister reviews security situation in the North East
      Posted On: 16 MAY 2017 7:39PM by PIB Delhi

      
      The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh reviewed the security situation in the North East with the Chief Secretaries and DGsP of the eight North Eastern States namely Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura. Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh, MoS for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju, National Security Advisor Shri Ajit Doval, the Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Mehrishi and DGs/ADGs of ITBP, Assam Rifles and BSF also participated.
      
      Home Minister complimented the States and Security Forces for the notable improvement in the security situation in the North East in recent years. He mentioned that the North East has got huge potential for development with rich human and natural resources. The Home Minister emphasised that for speedier development of the Region, improved security situation is extremely important.
      
      Shri Rajnath Singh stated that since counter-insurgency operations are now not taking as much time of the Security Forces as before, the State Police forces need to focus on improving normal police functioning, better prosecution and conviction in criminal cases. There is a need to improve investigation by adding scientific tools and Forensic Science Laboratories. Presence of illegal arms needs to be reduced through a sustained organised campaign by State Police forces. The Home Minister stated that the Police also needs to take pre-emptive action to handle the threat of radicalisation and to handle cyber crimes. For this, well equipped and well trained police forces will be needed. Shri Rajnath Singh said that the issues of repatriation of Brus and citizenship to Chakmas and Hajongs need the active cooperation from the concerned State Governments.
      
      In the meeting, issues discussed covered, inter-alia, counter-insurgency operations, strengthening of security at Indo-Bangladesh and Indo-Myanmar borders, issue of detection and deportation of foreigners, border fencing, border area development programme, implementation of ground rules with ceasefire groups, modernization of police forces, functioning of Security Related Expenditure (SRE) Scheme, repatriation of Brus from Tripura to Mizoram, citizenship to Chakmas and Hajongs in Arunachal Pradesh, deployment charges for CAPFs and rental compensation cases in Mizoram were also discussed.
      
      On behalf of the States several issues were raised including issues of need for creation of proper detention centres for illegal migrants in Assam, need for central assistance to upgrade police infrastructure in border areas of the region, rehabilitation of surrendered militants, upgradation of police infrastructure and training to handle modern age crime such as cyber crime, drugs and radicalisation, better facilities to trade with neighbouring countries, disbursal of land compensation for fencing and border roads, the need for drastically improving telecommunication coverage in the region, upgradation of the village guards system where it had been set up, further improvement of road infrastructure at international borders, early finishing of fencing and floodlighting at the border and exploring alternative options for difficult terrains such as hills, riverine areas and wildlife parks.

      ****

      
      
      KSD/NK/PK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1489991) Visitor Counter : 88