      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Pragati Maidan Complex to be Redeveloped into a World Class State-of-The-Art Exhibition-Cum-Convention Centre
      Posted On: 16 MAY 2017 3:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The existing Pragati Maidan Complex that so far used to organise National and International Exhibitions and facilitate holding of various other events, is set to get all new face with its upcoming redevelopment into a World class state-of-the-art Integrated Exhibition-cum-Convention Centre (IECC). At a joint Press Conference by Shri L. C. Goyal, CMD, India Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO) and Dr. Anoop Kumar Mittal, CMD, NBCC (India) Limited, held in New Delhi today, announced the launch of this sophisticated Project to be implemented by the latter at a cost of approx. Rs 2,500 Crore. Shri Goyal and Dr. Mittal on the occasion, released the layout and the design of IECC and an outline of comprehensive solutions to decongest traffic in and around Pragati Maidan. Once redeveloped, IECC will be a landmark spot in Delhi and a symbol of Hon’ble Prime Minister’s vision of ‘New India’, they informed.
    
    Conceived by NBCC in association with M/s ARCOP Associates Pvt. Ltd. and Aedas Pte. Ltd. of Singapore, the IECC shall be developed with latest architectural design alongwith basement parking facility of 4800 vehicles and comprehensive traffic decongestion interventions. The Convention Centre will be 32.4 mtr. tall landmark building on par with the best in the world. This structure will be on an elevated podium with unique slopping facade incorporating rich architectural heritage of Delhi. The Centre will have a capacity of 7000 pax in single format (Plenary Hall with fixed sitting of 3000 pax and Multi-Function Hall of 4000 pax) and amphitheatre with 3000pax. There will be altogether 30 Meeting Rooms of different sizes and capacity and the complete structure of the Centre will be built with a mix of red stone and Dholpur white stone and GFRC. The implementation of the whole project shall also have the provision for monetisation of land for a 500-Key Hotel.
    
    Exhibition segment of the Integrated Centre shall comprise 7 new modern Exhibition Halls along with pre-function area with exhibition space of one lakh sq. mtr. Each Exhibition Hall will have integrated F&B facility. There will also be exhibition open area (15 acres) with 4 open amphitheatres, (two of 900 pax each and two of 600 pax each) with two colourful fountain areas. The complex will also have covered walkways/canopies & skywalk connectivity with Pragati Maidan Metro Station.
    
    The basement parking for 4800 vehicles will have Entry and Exit points for smooth traffic flow. The provision of Traffic Interventions will take care of traffic decongestion interventions which shall be vital for better access to IECC and the benefit of general public. The facility will also connect Mathura Road/Purana Quila Road to Ring Road through a 6 lane divided tunnel cutting across Pragati Maidan and shall make Mathura Road signal free.
    
    Shri Goyal and Dr. Mittal also informed that the CCEA approved the IECC on 24 January, 2017 with the estimated cost of Rs. 2254 crore (excluding the cost on account of traffic interventions). Stating that all statutory approvals like layout plan and concept design by Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC), National Monuments Authority (NMA), South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC); layout plan and building plans by Fire Services Department of Govt. of Delhi; traffic Interventions by Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning & Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC) in DDA have been obtained, they informed that environmental clearance from Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF) is in process and expected soon.
    
    During the proceedings, both the Stakeholders revealed the detailed timeline of the prestigious project saying that the vendors for both IECC project and Traffic Interventions would be in place by the end of June, 2017 and the construction work would start by July, 2017. The Convention Centre, they informed, would be completed by November- December, 2018 and the entire project by July- August, 2019.
    
    Summing up, Shri Goyal and Dr. Mittal reiterated that the entire initiative, first-of-its-kind, would go a long way in ensuring comprehensive traffic solutions to decongest traffic in and around Pragati Maidan providing huge relief to the general public. They also assured that the people of the capital city of Delhi and the Country at large would welcome and appreciate the initiative once completed and would indeed applaud this landmark reality that would usher in a new era for the Capital.

    *****


    
    
    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489935) Visitor Counter : 133