      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Deputy Chief Minister of Manipur calls on DoNER Minister Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 10 MAY 2017 5:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Deputy Chief Minister of Manipur, Shri Y. Joykumar Singh, called on Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today and discussed some of the initiatives planned by the new government in the State which took over on March 15 this year.
    
    The Deputy Chief Minister was also accompanied by Law & Health Minister, Shri L. Jayantakumar and Youth and Sports Minister, Shri Letpao Haokip.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh disclosed to Shri Joykumar Singh that the proposal for having Helicopter-based “Air Clinics” for Northeast will probably be initiated from the State of Manipur. He said that the Union Ministry of Aviation and Union Ministry of Health have been taken on board and certain logistics and other issues need to be sorted out. He also informed that he has had a detailed discussion with the management of Pawan Hans and other Helicopter service providers on the subject.
    
    The Air Clinic Helicopter Service, said Dr Jitendra Singh, will help in setting up makeshift OPDs of different specialties in remote and inaccessible areas by specialised doctors. The same chopper can also be used for transporting patient to the hospital during its return sortie.
    
    Shri Joykumar Singh handed over to Dr Jitendra Singh a proposal for support from the Ministry of DoNER for developing infrastructure for Advocates and other legal functionaries in the Court and related premises in Manipur. Dr Jitendra Singh said, he would get the proposal evaluated and try to assess what is the feasible support that can be offered in this regard.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh also stressed upon expediting the process relating to land acquisition and transfer, for setting up Sports University in Manipur. He also shared with the visiting Ministers, the proposal to extend the cancer related healthcare facilities up to the district hospital level with the collaboration of Adyar Cancer Institute, Chennai. He said, a meeting of the Health Ministers of all the eight States of Northeast is scheduled to be held soon to determine the further course of action in this regard.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489583) Visitor Counter : 187