      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Vijay Goel, Carles Puyol hand over First Ticket of FIFA U-17 World Cup India 2017
      Posted On: 15 MAY 2017 8:32PM by PIB Delhi

      

        Union Minister of Youth Affairs & Sports Shri Vijay Goel attended an event to promote the ticketing launch for FIFA Under-17 World Cup India 2017 at Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium, here today. Spanish World Cup winner, Carles Puyol joined the Minister on the occasion. Welcoming Carles Puyol, the Sports Minister said, “To launch the tickets sales for this tournament, we have with us somebody, who was a star with not one, but two incredible teams – Spain and Barcelona. Puyol is a football legend and it is an honour to have him with us for the launch”. Shri Goel added, “We have made sure the tickets are priced very nominally, you can buy a World Cup ticket for less than fifty rupees, so there is no reason not to come and support this tournament in large numbers. I do not see this tournament as the conclusion, rather it is the start of the next revolution in Indian football and I need all your support to make the most of this amazing opportunity”.


        The legendary Spanish defender engaged in a friendly match with Shri Vijay Goel and children of the Mission XI Million programme. Shri Goel and Carles Puyol handed over the first ticket to Ms. Gouri Bhaduri, the grand daughter-in-law of Shibdas Bhaduri, captain of Mohun Bagan AC. It was for the first time that an Indian football team, Mohun Bagan AC, defeated an English team - East Yorkshire Regiment and won the IFA Shield in 1911. The ceremonial ticket will allow her family to attend any of the matches across the six host cities. Speaking on the occasion, Carles Puyol said, “I was very excited and curious to discover the country and its people and I am glad that I didn’t only get to see India’s rich history, but also honour it.


        Tickets for the first FIFA event in the country will go live on May 16 at exactly 19:11 hrs, paying tribute to the year in which Indian football made history. The tickets will be available on a first come, first serve basis, and will be exclusively available on FIFA.com. The Official Draw for the tournament will take place on July 7, 2017.


        ***


        HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489912) Visitor Counter : 38