      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      WCD Minister Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi to inaugurate the first ever workshop for Chairpersons of ICCs of Government Ministries/Departments
      Tirupati cleanest in medium cities category; Ambikapur in small cities group
      
      List of Cleanest and Fastest Mover Cities at Zonal Level
      Posted On: 04 MAY 2017 5:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Women & Child Development is organizing the first ever one day awareness program for chairpersons of Internal Complaints Committees constituted in all Central Government Ministries/departments under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The training program is being organized in collaboration with the Institute of Secretariat Training and Management and will be held at New Delhi tomorrow. It will be inaugurated by the Minister of Women & Child Development, Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi. Minister of State for Women and Child Development, Smt Krishna Raj will also remain present.
    
    There will be 60 participants in the workshop, mainly chairpersons of Internal Complaints Committees constituted in all central government ministries/departments. The workshop is being held for capacity building of chairpersons of ICCs to ensure its effective implementation.
    
    The workshop will have session on Gender Discrimination and Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace, Salient features of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 by eminent resource person Ms. Jyotika Kalra, Advocate and Hon’ble Member NHRC. This will be followed by a Mock Session of Internal Complaint Committee by Ms. Mayuri Raghuvanshi, Advocate, Supreme Court of India.
    
    Government of India is the largest employer in the country employing 30.87 lakh people to carry out its various functions. As per the Census of Central Government employees, 2011, women constitute 10.93% (3.37 lakhs) of the total regular Central Government employees. To ensure safety and security of women at workplace, the Government of India has enacted the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The Act covers both the government and private sectors.

    *****


    
    
    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489222) Visitor Counter : 159