      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      India unanimously elected to head UN-Habitat, the United Nations’ Human Settlements Programme
      Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu to Chair the Governing Council Meeting in Nairobi from today
      
      Shri Naidu also to chair Bureau meeting of Asia Pacific Ministers’ Conference on Housing & UD

      Posted On: 08 MAY 2017 4:23PM by PIB Delhi

    India has been unanimously elected as the President of the UN-Habitat, an organ of the United Nations’ Organisation (UNO) that promotes socially and environmentally sustainable human settlements across the world, after 10 years. UN-Habitat reports to the United Nations General Assembly.


    Further to today’s election, Minister of Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu will chair the four day meeting of the 58 member Governing Council of UN-Habitat in Nairobi, Kenya from today. Shri Naidu will preside over the deliberations of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat for the next two years. Since the UN-Habitat came into being in 1978, It is only the third time that India has been elected to lead this important organization after 2007 and 1988.


    As an inter-governmental policy making and decision making body, the Governing Council of UN-Habitat seeks to promote integral and comprehensive approach to human settlements, assist the countries and regions in addressing human settlement problems and strengthen cooperation among all countries on human settlement issue.


    The theme of the 26th Meeting of the Governing Council to be chaired by Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu from today is “Opportunities for effective implementation of the New Urban Agenda” with focus on inclusive, sustainable and adequate housing for a better future and planning and financing sustainable urbanization and integrated human settlements. The New Urban Agenda was adopted by the world community at Quito, Ecuador last year.


    Shri Venakiah Naidu will also chair the Bureau Meeting of the Asia-Pacific Ministers’ Conference on Housing and Urban Development beginning in Nairobi today.


    Shri Venkaiah Naidu thanked the member countries of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat for reposing faith in India and electing as the President of the Governing Council for the next two years.


    Addressing the Governing Council of UN-Habitat, Shri Naidu has stressed on the need to reorient urban planning and execution strategies to ensure dignity of living and sufficient means of living for people in the context of rapid urbanization, particularly, in developing countries.


    Shri Naidu elaborated on the integrated, inclusive and sustainable urban development model of India through various new missions like Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), Smart City Mission, Swachh Bharat Mission and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. He said these missions are addressing deficits in different kinds of infrastructure including affordable housing in a convergence mode.


    AAR


    

    
    (Release ID: 1489443) Visitor Counter : 129