      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Shri Bandaru Dattatreya launches EPFO’s Citizens’ Charter 2017 & e-court management system
      
      Citizens’ Charter 2017 to bring transparency and accountability on the part of EPFO

      Posted On: 16 MAY 2017 6:48PM by PIB Delhi
      
      
      The Minister of State for Labour & Employment(IC), Shri Bandaru Dattatreya launched EPFO’s Citizens’ Charter 2017 and e-court management system in Bangalore, today. Citizens’ Charter 2017 is an attempt to bring transparency and accountability on the part of EPFO and make service delivery system and grievance redressal mechanism more efficient so that it delivers goods and services to its all stakeholders in a time bound manner with a reduced timeline from earlier timeline of 30 days. The timeline in case of claim settlements is 10 days and 15 days in case of grievance redressal management.
      
      The citizens’ charter has been launched with the vision of social security coverage to all employees as well as implementation of policies for benefit of all stakeholders with adequate support level of social security.
      
      EPFO e-court Management System has been launched which is in tune with the vision of the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi of digital India. The objective of the project is a transparent and electronic case management system which will cater to aspirations of all stakeholders – the employers, the employees, litigants and CBT. It is a step towards paperless court system wherein court procedure of EPF & MP Act, 1952 and EPFAT will take place in a digital environment.
      
      Further, in order to facilitate easy access to the tribunal, automated messages will be sent to the litigants on their registered mobile numbers on the status of their cases. The stakeholders can also track the individual cases online.
      
      Now the parties can file all their paper / evidence / documents online and all the details alongwith status can be accessed online. Updation is an important part of e-court management system in which digital case record will create a digital database which can be utilized to generate meaningful and accurate reports. This is also an attempt to create paperless court procedure alongwith efficiency and transparency in the system.

      ****

      
      
      BCK/AK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1489985) Visitor Counter : 221