      President's Secretariat

      Technology for sustainable and inclusive growth is the need of the hour, says President
      Posted On: 11 MAY 2017 5:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee attended the National Technology Day Celebrations today (May 11, 2017) in New Delhi.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that scientific and technological developments are a key to any nation’s success. India is one of the top-ranking countries in the field of basic research. Indian science has progressed to become one of the most powerful instruments of knowledge. Yet in the wake of new demands of economic growth, it is necessary to embark on translating science and technology into developmental needs in all sectors such as infrastructure, agriculture, health, communication and education.


    The President said that disparity between haves and have-nots, urban and rural areas, and exclusion or marginalization of certain groups can give rise to social unrest. It is crucial that more technological innovations are geared towards eliminating these disparities and differences. In our endeavor for global excellence, not even a single citizen should be left behind. ‘Technology for sustainable and inclusive growth’ is the need of the hour. And it is where all - innovators, technocrats, entrepreneurs and policymakers - have an important role to play. They have to ensure that science and technology does not remain confined to a select few sectors only. Progress and growth of the country will be sustainable only if development for all is the overarching goal. For that, we have to ensure that all strata of the society enjoy the benefits of technological innovation and scientific advancements equally.


    The President said that India is a land of rich diversity, with outstanding talent hidden away even in the remotest areas and minutest villages. Such potential needs to be discovered and nurtured. Our nation has been making steady progress towards increasing connectivity between far-flung regions and integrating people from all walks of life. It is essential that we continue to move forward in this direction and use technology to create stable employment opportunities, encourage entrepreneurship, and build growth models that allow for inclusion of women and the disadvantaged. This will lead to the empowerment of citizens, which is the hallmark of a strong nation.


    *****


    AKT/NT/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489627) Visitor Counter : 65