      Ministry of Power

      Shri Piyush Goyal to visit Vienna and London from 10-13 May 2017
      Posted On: 09 MAY 2017 1:23PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Piyush Goyal, Union Minister of State (IC) for Power, Coal and New & Renewable Energy and Mines will be visiting Austria and United Kingdom from 10 th to 13 th May 2017 for an Energy Dialogue with both the countries.


    On Wednesday, 10 th May 2017, Shri Goyal will participate in Investors Meet organised by Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) and Austrian Federal Economic Chamber (WKO). Further, the Minister will deliver key note address at Vienna Energy Forum 2017 on Thursday, 11 th May, 2017, after which he will be having dialogue with Director General of United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) to explore prospects of better business opportunities in the energy sector. Shri Goyal will also participate in a Ministerial Panel Discussion on ‘2030 Development Agenda for Energy’, focusing on the SDG7: Energy Access, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. He will also talk about International Solar Alliance and RE Invest on the occasion.


    On 12 th May 2017, apart from regular business meetings, Shri Goyal will be participating in U.K.- India Business Roundtable on Energy organised by FICCI and UK Trade & Investment (UKTI) in London. The Minister will also witness the listing of NTPC’s bonds at London Stock Exchange on the same day. NTPC is a fairly regular issuer of Offshore medium-term notes (MTN) . The current issuance is the second Masala Bonds offering by NTPC within a 12 months period. The first Masala Bonds issuance in August 2016 was for Rs. 2000 crores (~ US$ 300 million) as is the current one (~US$310 million). Both the Masala Bonds are of 5 years tenor. The latest Masala Bonds 2017, carry a coupon of 7.25% payable annually with reoffer yield of 7.28% (tightest yet by any Indian Issuer). NTPC Masala Bonds would be the 1st MTN and 1stMasala Bonds to list on the new I nternational Securities Market ( ISM)


    On 13 th May 2017, Shri Piyush Goyal will launch and extend Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) affordable lighting scheme – UJALA (UK Joins Affordable LEDs for All) to consumers in UK. The Minister will also formally announce State­run EESL’s investment of 100 million pounds in the UK over the next 3 years. The aim is to create space in the country's 6.4­billion pounds energy efficiency services market and to implement low-carbon, energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions in both public and private sectors.


    It is worth noting that EESL has already begun its operation in UK by acquisition, worth £6.8m, of two operating companies running Energy Savings Performance Agreements in Education and Leisure sectors. The acquisition is effected by EPAL, a JV of EESL and EnergyPro Limited, an advisory company specializing in Energy Efficiency.


    Shri Goyal will unveil EPAL’s branding during the event. EESL will also formalize its collaboration with Cenergist to strengthen its LED pipeline. EESL will be signing three MoUs with High Commission of India at London, Cenergist and Calvin Capital respectively. Indian Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers Association (IEEMA) will also sign a Memorandum of Understanding with British Electrotechnical & Allied Manufacturers’ Association (BEAMA) on the occasion.


    The Minister will be accompanied by senior officers of Ministry of Power on this four day tour.


    ****


    RM/VM/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489510) Visitor Counter : 86