      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Second Meeting on Management and Development of Water Resources Under the Provisions of UP Re-Organisation Act held
      Posted On: 09 MAY 2017 8:45PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The second meeting regarding Management and Development of Water Resources under the provisions of UP Re-Organisation Act, 2000 was held under the Chairmanship of Dr Amarjit Singh, Secretary (WR, RD & GR) at New Delhi on May 08,2017. Government of UP was represented by Shri CP Tripathi, Special Secretary (lrrigation), Govt. of Uttar Pradesh and Government of Uttarakhand was represented by Shri Anand Bardhan, Prinicipal Secretary (lrrigation), Govt. of Uttarakhand. Other participants from Central Government included Shri Narendra Kumar, Chairman, CWC , Shri S. Masood Hussain, Member (WP&P), CWC, Shri Sanjay Kundu, Joint Secretary(PP), MoWR, RD & GR and Shri Dilip Kumar, Joint Secretary (CS), Ministry of Home Affairs.

    
    Regarding distribution of water resources assets and infrastructure, it was informed by the representatives of States of UP and Uttarakhand that 37 canals (28 in Haridwar District and nine in Udham Singh Nagar District) have been transferred to Uttarakhand by Uttar Pradesh. Eight canals situated in Moradabad District under the control of Uttarakhand have been transferred to Uttar Pradesh by Uttarakhand. In respect of 43 canals which partly lie in both the States and also in the control of either States, two rounds of meetings have also been held between officials of the two States. The work on the issue is still under consideration of both the States and it was agreed that for proper maintenance of such canals necessary action will be taken by two States.
    
    Regarding transfer of 25% of building and unutilized land, Special Secretary (Irrigation), UP said that decision of the UP Government has already been conveyed to Uttarakhand and that once they receive inventorised list of buildings and unutilized lands, the same will be examined and put up for consideration to the UP Government. It was suggested that since the Government of UP has agreed to transfer 25% of building and unutilized land, the matter may be resolved first at the level of Principal Secretary of both the Governments by meetings and other means of communication. Issues with regard to other land and buildings were also deliberated upon.
    
    Regarding constitution of Ganga Management Board a draft notification based on broad agreements as arrived at the meeting has already been circulated to both the States. Broad discussions on the same were held and both the States were requested to send their formal response on the same for early constitution of the Ganga Management Board.
    
    Samir/jkd/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489573) Visitor Counter : 155