      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      National ST Commission Expresses Displeasure Over the Slow Progress on the Issue of Displacement of Tribals Due to Rourkela Steel Plant
      Posted On: 16 MAY 2017 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


    National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (NCST) has expressed its displeasure over the slow progress on the issue of displacement of tribals due to Roukela Steel Plant. In its meeting held in New Delhi today the commission directed Principal revenue Secretary Odisha, district collector of Sundergarh and senior officials of Rourkela Steel Plant that they should report back to the commission within a month about the action taken by them on its directives. The commission said, if it is not satisfied with the action taken report than it will summon the Chief Secretary and CEO of Rourkela Steel Plant.
    
    The commission also directed the Union Steel Ministry to constitute a high level committee under a Joint Secretary to investigate that whether the land acquired for the steel plant was handed over to any cooperative society or private organisation and if so, whether the prior permission of the Govt was obtained or not. The committee should also investigate that how much land is being utilised by the steel plant.
    
    The commission directed the District collector of Sundergarh to submit a report about the status of land returned by the steel plant to the tribal. NCST also expressed its displeasure over the non issue of Pattas for the agricultural and residential land issued to the displaced tribals and directed the District administration to issue these Pattas immediately.
    
    The NCST directed Steel Plant officials that remaining people out of the 1098 persons identified in 1993 should be immediately provided employment in Steel plant. The Plant authorities should also certify that only genuine displaced tribals were provided employment. The commission also directed the steel plant authorities to ensure supply of basic facilities such as electricity and water in the colony set up for displaced tribals.
    
    Samir/JD/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489983) Visitor Counter : 212