      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh launches the MHA Mobile Application for Grievances Redressal of CAPF personnel
      App is a ‘Digital Option’ to jawans to lodge their grievances: Home Minister

      Posted On: 11 MAY 2017 7:24PM by PIB Delhi
        The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh launched the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) Mobile Application for grievance redressal of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) personnel, here today. The Union Home Minister also launched BSFMyApp on the occasion.
        Speaking on the occasion, Shri Rajnath Singh said that he had proposed this App at the DGPs conference held in Hyderabad last year. He said that he wished to relate to every jawan working for nation. He congratulated the BSF for developing this App in short span of time. He said that the CPAFs are one of the most disciplined forces. If they are disciplined, this does not mean that they do not have emotions, he added. He said that they also have some personal problems and the system keeps on resolving their problems from time to time. Shri Rajnath Singh said that this App is required when the jawans feel that their problems need attention of the Ministry of Home Affairs. This has given a ‘Digital Option’ to jawans to lodge their grievances and he is just one click away from jawans, the Home Minister said. Shri Rajnath Singh said that he will review the dashboard of the App every month and check the status of redressal of grievances. The MHA will intervene, wherever required, he said. He said that everybody should get benefitted from the telecom revolution.
        The Home Minister also appreciated the jawans for the dedication with which they do their duty. He said that the Government is making efforts for the welfare of jawans. He said that to curb stagnation, 34,000 jawans have been promoted to Head constable position. He also said that the families of the jawans, who sacrifice their life for the nation, should get minimum assistance of Rs one crore. He said that the Government has recently launched a web portal “Bharat ke veer” to enable the willing donors to contribute towards the family of a braveheart who sacrificed his/her life in line of duty. The web portal is getting very good response, he added.
        The MHA Mobile App has been developed in view of the fact that personnel of various Central Armed Police Forces are discharging their duties at their places of duty all over the Country. In the course of discharging their duties, they come across various personal/service related problems which can be addressed and re-addressed by their organizations. All Central Armed Police Forces have well organized mechanism for Redressal of Grievances of their personnel. Notwithstanding, there are still some personnel who feel that their grievances need further consideration and better solution. As a result, they have a keen desire to raise their level of grievances to the level of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). This required a suitable mechanism to enable Force personnel to submit their grievances to MHA and at the same time provide an opportunity to their organization for further consideration of their requests. Considering this requirement, the MHA Mobile App provides a common system in which all personnel of various CAPFs can submit their grievances through a Mobile Application and the same provides respective Forces to receive the submitted grievance for further action. The Mobile application also has a provision for MHA to continuously monitor the action taken by various CAPFs on their grievances and regulate the process for further improvement in the Grievance Redressal System.
        The BSFMyApp launched on the occasion has been developed to cater to the requirement of BSF personnel regarding Grievance Redressal as well as various other service and welfare related issues of the Force personnel, deployed in the field. It provides mechanism to address issues related to Pay, GPF, Leave, Deputation etc. The most significant feature of the Application is its Financial Literacy Module which not only educates BSF Personnel about investment of their savings but also facilitates investment in a safe and systematic manner.
        The DGs of CAPFs and senior officers of the Ministry of Home Affairs and CAPFs were also present on the occasion.
        *****
        KSD/NK/PK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1489684) Visitor Counter : 82
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu