      Ministry of Defence

      Naval commanders’ conference concludes
      
      
      Expand Navy’s operational footprint and be a stabilising
      
      Force in IOR – Admiral Sunil Lanba, CNS

      Posted On: 05 MAY 2017 3:53PM by PIB Delhi

    

    The four-day long Naval Commanders’ Conference concluded on 05 May 17 wherein the top-level leadership of Navy reviewed major operational, training and administrative activities undertaken in the last six months. The conference reviewed IN’s readiness to deploy over the entire range of missions in the maritime domain.

    
    The Hon’ble Defence Minister addressed and interacted with the Naval Commanders on the opening day of the Conference. The Defence Minister complimented the IN for its professionalism and commitment towards protecting the maritime interests of the country, including its immense maritime boundary and furthering the country’s defence diplomacy requirements. He urged the Commanders to be prepared at all times emphasising that preparedness would be the best deterrent. Lauding the IN’s efforts in indigenisation, he urged the Commanders to continue furthering the build up of domestic expertise.
    
    Chairing the conference, the CNS addressed the Naval Commanders on issues pertaining to operational readiness, capability enhancement, maintenance, op logistics, infrastructure development and human resource management. He emphasised the need for continued efforts towards modernisation, indigenisation and expanding the Navy’s operational footprint so as to be a stabilising force in IOR.
    
    The Commanders also had an opportunity to interact with senior government officials, as also with the Chiefs of Indian Army and IAF, who shared their views on the current security situation and the way ahead to enhance Tri-Service synergy and jointmanship. The Foreign secretary also interacted with the Commanders on the geo-political developments with key focus on the Indian Ocean Region and outlined key imperatives pertaining to our foreign policy and diplomatic initiatives.
    
    Focussed attention was also accorded to associated aspects that included a review of the security measures and mechanisms for Coastal Defence, infrastructure/ force development and logistics support management.
    
    In his closing address, the CNS while complimenting the officers for their commitment and professionalism exhorted the Commanders to give focussed attention to address all challenges with the singular aim to be combat ready at all times. He emphasised the importance of quality maintenance and efficient Operational Logistics towards ensuring combat effectiveness.

    ****


    
    
    DKS/AC 33/17

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489294) Visitor Counter : 117
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati