      Ministry of Defence

      Eastern Fleet’s overseas Deployment to Singapore
      Posted On: 12 MAY 2017 6:12PM by PIB Delhi


    

    In pursuance of India’s Act East policy, Indian Naval Ships Sahyadri, Shivalik, Jyoti and Kamorta are on an Overseas Deployment to the South East Asia and Southern Indian Ocean under the command of Rear Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, YSM, VSM, the Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Fleet.

    
    Indian Naval Ships Sahyadri and Kamorta are on a port visit to Singapore from May 12 to May 21, 2017 during which the ships will participate in the International Maritime Review and lMDEX-17. Admiral Sunil Lanba, PVSM, AVSM, ADC, the Chief of Naval Staff, Indian Navy would also be attending the events ashore. During the port visit, various calls by the visiting Fleet would be organised in addition to those scheduled as part of IMR and IMDEX-17. Thereafter the four Indian Naval Ships and an Indian Navy Long Range Maritime Patrol and Anti-Submarine Warfare aircraft P-8l would exercise with the RSN and RSAF as part of SIMBEX-17. Held since 1994, this year would be the 24th edition of the annual maritime bilateral exercise between the two countries which aims to further cement the defence cooperation between the two countries.
    
    The two countries share a rich history and a strategic relationship. A number of bilateral agreements exist between the two countries in various spheres. The visit of the Indian Naval Ships seeks to underscore India’s peaceful presence and solidarity with friendly and harmonious countries towards ensuring good order in the maritime domain. Indian Naval assets have been increasingly deployed in recent times to address the main maritime concerns of the region. In addition, as part of the Indian Government’s vision of SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region), the Indian Navy has also been involved in assisting countries in the Indian Ocean Region with EEZ Surveillance, Search and Rescue, and other capacity-building and capability-enhancement activities. The current deployment will contribute towards the Indian Navy’s efforts to consolidate inter-operability and forge strong bonds of friendship across the seas.
    
    Over the past few decades, India has made substantial advances in terms of designing and building warships indigenously and the visiting ships bear testimony to these capabilities. INS Sahyadri, a multi-role stealth frigate is commanded by Captain Anil Jaggi while INS Kamorta, an Anti-Submarine Warfare Corvette is commanded by Commander Vipin Gupta. Both ships are indigenously designed and built. During the stay in harbour, various activities such as official calls, formal reception on board ships, ships open to visitors, guided tours for Indian naval personnel and professional interaction between naval personnel of both the nations have been planned. The last visit by an Indian Naval Ship to Singapore was by INS Satpura in September 2016.

    ****


    
    
    CGR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489746) Visitor Counter : 91