      Ministry of Urban Development

      Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu to review progress of urban schemes in Uttar Pradesh tomorrow
      Chief Minister Shri Yogi Adityanath, concerned Ministers to attend review in Lucknow
      Posted On: 04 MAY 2017 6:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Urban Development and Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu will review the implementation of central sector and centrally sponsored urban schemes in Uttar Pradesh tomorrow.
    
    Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Shri Yogi Adityanath, concerned ministers of the State and all concerned senior officials of the two central urban ministries including national and state level Mission Directors will attend the review in Lucknow.
    
    This is the first such review of urban sector programmes since the formation of new Government in Uttar Pradesh.
    
    Being the most populous State of the country, the highest number of 62 cities and towns from the State are included in Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). For the development of basic urban infrastructure in these mission cities, centre has approved a total investment of Rs.9,322 cr with a central assistance of Rs.5,043 cr.
    
    Under Smart City Mission also, Uttar Pradesh has got the highest number of 13 cities included in the mission. Of these four viz., Lucknow, Agra, Kanpur and Varanasi have been selected through two rounds of competition for financing. A total investment of Rs.8,770 cr has been approved by the centre with central assistance of Rs.2,000 cr. The remaining cities are participating in the third round of competition.
    
    While releasing the results of Swachh Surekshan-2017, Shri Naidu stressed the need to step up efforts to ensure cleanliness in urban areas of Uttar Pradesh.
    
    Mathura is included in the Heritage Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) for development of heritage related infrastructure with total central funding.
    
    Under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana(Urban), only a few proposals have been received from the earlier State Government based on which the central government approved construction of 20,682 affordable houses for urban poor with an investment of Rs.1,058 cr for which central assistance of Rs.466 cr has been approved.
    
    AAR/KM
    
    May 4, 2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489227) Visitor Counter : 232