      President's Secretariat

      World is tiring of statements and resolutions, says President
      Posted On: 06 MAY 2017 8:00PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The participants of the 8th Annual Heads of Missions Conference called on President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee today (May 6, 2017) at Rashtrapati Bhavan.

    
    Speaking on the occasion, the President said the world is tiring of statements and resolutions. Our efforts should be to work with like-minded nations and global institutions to swiftly generate effective solutions and implement them efficiently. Every well conceived effort will have some positive outcome.
    
    The President said there is a new World Order. All of humankind is, today, challenged by compelling transnational issues that need to be urgently addressed collectively and innovatively. Whether it is drug-resistant viruses, environmental degradation, pollution and climate change - or energy , water and food security, no single nation can claim to be free of deep concerns on account of these issues.
    
    The President said the dynamics of the new world order must be well analyzed and understood. As Heads of Missions, they shall have to ensure that India, as a respected and responsible player in world affairs and an emerging economic power, responds to the new challenges appropriately - to its best advantage, safeguarding its core interests at all times. He stressed that this is a moment for strategic policy making, leadership, and pursuit of an independent foreign policy - based on principle, pragmatism and the time-honored philosophy of Vasudaiva Kutumbakam.
    
    The President said the reforms and recent initiatives of Government of India have made our economy attractive for investors and our industrial sector viable for prospective partners. The renewed emphasis of our Government on outcomes rather than processes is also a welcome step. Today, technology has revolutionized the way we share knowledge, do business, consult and even the way we do our diplomatic work. In some countries, it is being used to create vast capacities for eavesdropping and cyber warfare.

    ***


    
    
    AKT/SH/VK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489403) Visitor Counter : 127