      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Shri Bandaru Dattatreya Chairs 48th Session of the Standing Labour Committee (SLC)
      SLC finalises the agenda items for the 48th Indian Labour Conference (ILC)

      Posted On: 11 MAY 2017 8:13PM by PIB Delhi
        The Conference of the 48 th Session of the Standing Labour Committee (SLC) was held here today under the Chairmanship of Shri Bandaru Dattatreya, the Minister of State (IC) for Labour & Employment. Shri Dattatreya informed the delegates that the welfare of the workers, including their health are very important and the Ministry has been working tirelessly in this direction through its own and also through its Organizations like EPFO and ESIC. Shri Dattatreya also stressed upon educating the workers on various initiatives/measures taken for their welfare, particularly the legislative measures.
        While addressing the delegates of the Conference, Ms. M Sathiyavathy , Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment, outlined important legislative measures taken by the Ministry aimed at the welfare of the Workers and also at Ease of Doing Business. Ms. Sathiyavathy informed that employment generation is of utmost importance to the Government and towards that a conducive atmosphere for setting up of new establishments without compromising in interests of the workers is being aimed by the Ministry.
        Shri Manish Gupta, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment welcomed the participants and delegates of the Conference. The purpose of organizing this conference on the Tripartite format consisting of Employees’ Group, Employers’ Group and Government Group is to review the Action Taken Report of the last ILC and set the Agenda for the next ILC.
        While the Minister is the Chairman of the conference, Shri C. K. Saji Narayanan was elected as the Vice Chairman for the Conference from the Employees’ Group, Shri Sudarshan Sareen as the Vice Chairman from the Employers’ Group and Shri A. Naidu, Additional Chief Secretary, Government of Madhya Pradesh from the State Government Group.
        After detailed discussion of the agenda items, including the review of the action taken on the conclusions of the last ILC, by various groups, the SLC finalized the following agenda items for the 48 th Indian Labour Conference (ILC), the dates for which is likely to be finalized shortly:
        1) Social Security for all.
        2) Labour law amendment, reforms and codification
        3) Employment Generation with special focus on women
        4) Transition to formal employment.
        The Conference was attended by representatives of Central Trade Union organization, Employers’ Organization, State Governments, International Labour Organization, other National Organizations, Central Ministries/Departments and senior officers of Ministry of Labour & Employment.
        *****
        BCK/AK/SBP
    
    
    (Release ID: 1489691) Visitor Counter : 63