      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      J&K Bar Association delegation calls on Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2017 4:56PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation of J&K Bar Association led by its newly elected President, Advocate B. S. Salathia, called on Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today.


    The other members of the delegation consisted of the new office bearers including Shri Sachin Gupta, Vice President, Shri Prem Sadotra, General Secretary, Shri Himanshu Sharma, Joint Secretary and Shri Chetan Misri, Treasurer.


    Shri Salathia assured Dr Jitendra Singh that the entire team of the Jammu Bar Association fully supported the Government of India’s stand on Kashmir and was of the firm view that there cannot be any compromise or second thought on the issue. He said, the Bar Association will soon start a campaign across the State to mobilize the public opinion in this regard and to educate the masses about the various facts and evidences of history.


    Dr Jitendra Singh told the team of new office bearers of the Bar Association that time has come for all the nationalist forces to unite and defeat the mischievous designs of a handful few who keep raising the bogey of so-called Kashmir issue only to promote their vested agenda, at the cost of the common man and the common youth. He said, the lawyer community, being opinion makers in the society, have a significant responsibility to play as a part of their duty and obligation to Mother India.


    Referring to the commitment and conviction of the government led by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, Dr Jitendra Singh said, in the last three years, several new vistas of growth and progress have opened up across the country, particularly for the youth. It is, therefore, he said, for the literate and representative bodies like the Bar Association to make the common people understand their stakes and not allow the State of Jammu & Kashmir to lag behind in seeking the rich benefits and dividends available to the other States of India.


    ***


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489461) Visitor Counter : 33