      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Nepali community delegation calls on Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 05 MAY 2017 3:53PM by PIB Delhi


    

    A delegation of Nepali community, represented by “Nepali Sanskriti Parishad” and led by its President Shri Ashok Chaurasia, called on the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today and sought his intervention for redressal of some issues facing the community.

    
    The members of the delegation apprised Dr Jitendra Singh that in NCR Delhi itself, there is about 35 lakh pollution of Nepali community, whereas in whole of India, the population is over 2.25 crore, out of which around one crore are non-residents working in India. This, they said, is a huge number, considering the fact that the total population of Nepal is just about 3.5 crore which also includes several of the non-Nepali residents.
    
    The Nepali community, according to Shri Chaurasia, has always enthusiastically participated in mainstream activities. The members of delegation also submitted documents to the Minister relating to the broadcast of All India Radio news bulletin in Nepali language.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh gave a patient hearing to the members of delegation and said that the nation is proud of the contribution made by the community in the social and cultural life of India. Describing it as a highly patriotic and brave community, he said, the members of the community have made a very valuable contribution to the Indian Army and Paramilitary Forces, and have served the nation in the most difficult times. The stories of their bravery, valour and patriotism are an example for others, he added.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh assured Shri Chaurasia and others that he will take up the issues raised by them with the concerned departments.
    
    He said that he has also received a request to set up an educational institution by Nepali community in Sikkim with the funding from the Ministry of DONER.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489293) Visitor Counter : 218
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati