      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Government focused on Integrated Development & Inclusive Growth
      DD committed to provide truthful information & wholesome entertainment to people - Venkaiah Naidu
      
      I&B Minister releases 14 short films produced by Doordarshan on success stories of various Flagship schemes of the Government

      Posted On: 27 MAY 2017 11:43PM by PIB Delhi

      Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, Minister for Information & Broadcasting has said that the focus of the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister has been on Integrated Development, Inclusive Growth and Good Governance. The Government in the last three years had taken various initiatives for the welfare of the people ensuring Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas. The 14 Short Films produced by Doordarshan showcased the success stories under various Flagship Schemes of the Government which had positively impacted people’s lives and had brought a transformational change in the country. The films have successfully portrayed the underlying development narrative through testimonials from the beneficiaries at the field level all across the country. The Minister mentioned this while releasing the 14 short films produced by Doordarshan on various flagship schemes of the Government here today.


      Speaking further, Shri Naidu said that these films would be showcased on all Doordarshan channels in Hindi and all other Indian languages with the purpose to motivate and inspire others also to use the benefits under various Flagship Schemes of the Government. These films would also be used by all other Media units of the Ministry of I&B to enhance outreach across media platforms. Shri Naidu also mentioned that Ministry of I&B would be facilitating the outreach programmes of the Government through MODI (Making of Developed India) fests all across the country along with its media units.


      Speaking on the Freedish initiative of Doordarshan, Shri Naidu said that DD Free Dish was the largest free DTH Service available to the people in the country. As per the recent estimates it has reached more than 22 million homes. The Government has planned to further enhance the reach of DD Free Dish by distributing Free DD DTH boxes in the remote and interior areas of the country through State Governments, especially in the LWE impacted areas. He also mentioned that the Ministry would be giving 10,000 DTH boxes to the Government of Chattisgarh for distribution in the LWE areas.


      The following themes have been covered in the short films produced by Doordarshan.


      1. Mission Indradhanush


      2. Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna and Soil Health Card


      3. Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas


      4. Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana


      5. Skill India


      6. Beti Bachao Beto Padhao


      7. Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojna


      8. Kaushal Bharat Kushal Bharat


      9. Pradahn Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna


      10. National Solar Mission under Ujjwal Bharat


      Shri Naidu also highlighted that Doordarshan would be organising a Sports Conclave tomorrow i.e. 28 th May, 2017 at its studios at Asiad Village New Delhi. Leading sports personalities, sports federations, editors from various sports magazines and newspapers would be participating in live discussions. DD sports would connect live with Varanasi, Guwahati and other places to interact with local players and State Authorities. The conclave would discuss the future of Indian sports and policy interventions required for India to become a formidable force.


      CP/GV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490985) Visitor Counter : 104