      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Cabinet approves proposal to establish Indian Agricultural Institute (IARI) in Assam
      IARI-Assam would be a Post-Graduate Institute of higher learning in Agricultural Education.

      Posted On: 17 MAY 2017 4:04PM by PIB Delhi

    IARI-Assam would work on the agrarian challenges and complexities of North Eastern Indian.

    The Cabinet Committee today approved the proposal of DARE/ICAR scheme of the establishment of the Indian Agricultural Institute (IARI)- Assam with hundred percent outlay of central government on 587 acres of land provided by the government of Assam. Also, the proposal for 98 positions has been approved.

    
    Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister, Shri Radha Mohan Singh said that IARI-Assam would be a Post-Graduate Institute of higher learning in Agricultural Education and it will have all the hallmark identities of IARI in New Delhi including all sectors of agriculture like field crops, horticulture crops, agroforestry, animal husbandry, fisheries, poultry, piggery, silk rearing, honey production, etc.
    
    Shri Singh informed that IARI-Assam would work on the agrarian challenges and complexities of North Eastern India in coordination with all existing central and state government R&D Institutions and private sector enterprises for undertaking research, education, extension programs in its mission towards developing quality human resource, generation of farmer-friendly technologies to enhance productivity, quality, profitability, promote agro-based industries and generate employment opportunities for holistic and sustainable development of the agriculture sector in the North Eastern region. It will be an off campus of IARI, New Delhi and integrated multi-disciplinary research would be undertaken in school mode i.e. Schools of Crop Sciences, Natural Resource Management, and Animal Sciences & Fisheries.
    
    Union Agriculture Minister said that after coming to the power, our Prime Minister Narendra Modiji had announced that for the growth of agriculture sector in the northeastern region, an IARI will be established in Assam. Six months ago, the State Government provided land for the project. Now, with the cabinet’s approval, the route is clear for this project.
    
    SS (IARI-Assam)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490014) Visitor Counter : 107