      Ministry of Home Affairs

      BPR&D to organise National Conference of Micro Mission of National Police Mission on May 23-24, 2017
      Posted On: 19 MAY 2017 6:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPR&D), under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), will organise the 1st National Conference of Micro Missions of National Police Mission (NPM) on May 23-24, 2017.
    
    Shri Amitabh Kant, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of NITI Aayog (National Institution for Transforming India), will deliver the Inaugural Address. Noble Peace Laureate Shri Kailash Satyarthi will be the Chief Guest during the Valedictory Session.
    
    Brieifing the media here today, Shri Nirmal Kumar Azad, Inspector General, Head, National Police Mission, BPR&D said that during the conference, there will be sessions on the eight Micro Missions working under the BPR&D on issues including Proactive Policing and Visualizing Future Challenges (Extremism and Naxalism – Mob Violence – Cyber Crime – Money Laundering – Narco Terrorism – Human trafficking etc.) and Communication and Technology (Polnet – CIPA – Cyber Techniques – Forensic Science – DNA – Narco Analysis etc.).
    
    Panelists will include Shri RR Bhatnagar, DG, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Shri Krishna Chaudhary, DG, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Smt. Rina Mitra, Special Secretary (IS), MHA and Dr. Meeran C. Borwankar, Director General, BPR&D.
    
    NPM is working to transfrom the Police Forces in the country into effective instrument for maintenance of Internal Security and meeting challenges of the next century, by equipping them with the necessary material, intellectual and organisational resources and to create a “New Vision” for the police.
    
    Since its inception, NPM has been working for empowering the Police Forces by enhancing the skills and competence at grassroot level, promoting a culture of excellence and accountability of police, meeting challenges such as asymmetric warfare, new trends in urban and social unrest, bring out specialisation in areas like counter-terrorism and insurgency, focussing on the strengthening of metropolitan and rural policing, bring in attitudinal changes in police, gender sensitisation and harnessing technology in aid of policing and adopting community policing etc.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490325) Visitor Counter : 94