      Ministry of Finance

      African development Bank’s President thanks India for success of the annual meetings of the bank held in Gandhinagar; Expects that all these meetings would substantially contribute to the AFDB’S new transformation agenda encapsulated in the High 5s – related to the fields of power, Agriculture(food security), connectivity (Transportation), industrialization(Skill Development) and Health.
      Posted On: 25 MAY 2017 6:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of the African Development Bank (AfDB) Shri Akinwumi Adesina expresses happiness at the outcome of the Annual Meetings of the bank held in Gandhinagar, Gujarat. Addressing a Press Conference at Mahatma Mandir International Convention cum Exhibition Centre, Gandhinagar, Gujarat today, the Bank’s President thanked India and the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi in particular for the success of its Annual Meetings. Shri Adesina said that he had fruitful meetings with Shri Modi, the Union Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitely, the Power Minister Shri Piyush Goyal and other Indian Ministers during the five day Annual Meetings of the bank. He said all these meetings are expected to substantially contribute to the bank’s New Transformation Agenda encapsulated in the High 5s – related to the fields of power, agriculture(food security), connectivity (transportation), industrialization(skill development) and health. Shri Adesina also said that he is happy that the Prime Minster Shri Narendra Modi had mentioned of India and Japan considering the Asia Africa Growth Corridor and he is now more confident that all this should contribute to greater development in Africa. He said the AfDB is looking forward to scaling-up of technologies and for investments in future technologies for skilling African youth. He said that he also expects youth in Africa to more actively participate in agricultural activities to fight poverty in Africa. The President of the AfDB said that he even sees possibilities of bollywood films contributing to encourage African youth towards Agriculture.

    
    Shri Adesina thanked the Chief Minister of Gujarat Shri Vijay Roopani and all others who helped in making the meetings of the bank a great success
    
    The Presidents of Benin and Senegal, the Vice President of Cote D’Ivoire, the Secretary-General of the African Union, the Commissioner of the African Union Commission and the Chief Minister of Gujarat and State Government Ministers were among other dignitaries who graced the AfDB Annual Meetings being held from 22nd May, 2017 onwards at Mahatma Mandir International Convention cum Exhibition Centre, Gandhinagar, Gujarat..

    ****


    
    
    KSP/DSM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490833) Visitor Counter : 90