      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot Inaugurates ‘15th National Meeting of State Commissioners for Persons with Disabilities’
      Posted On: 17 MAY 2017 3:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment inaugurated the “15 th National Meeting of the State Commissioners for Persons with Disabilities (PwD)” to review Implementation of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of rights and Full Participation) Act-1995 here today. The two days meeting has been organized by the Office of the Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities under Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities under Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.


    Shri Kamlesh Pande, Chief Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities and Shri N.S. Kang, Secretary, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, M/o SJ&E were also present. State Commissioners for PwD from States and Union Territories are attending the meeting and presenting their Reports on the implementation of the Act in their States.


    Addressing on the occasion, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot said that during past during past three years, the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD) under Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has become very active and vibrant. It has organized more 5200 ADIP camps for distribution of assistive devices to Divyangjans and four world records have been created. After the passing of Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Bill, the categories of Divyangjans have increased from 7 to 21 and now its implementation should be properly taken care of by all concerned. He opined that the Government wants to strengthen the Commissioner System in all the States and full time Commissioners will serve their purpose in a better way. He also stressed on the people’s participation in this effort.


    During the two days meeting, the status of implementation of various provisions of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of rights and Full Participation) Act-1995 with focus on education, employment/self-employment, accessible environment and social security etc for Persons with disabilities in the States and Union Territories is being reviewed and strategy for more effective implementation of the Act is being formulated.


    A Presentation by the representatives of Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD) and its Apex organizations on the issues and initiatives taken by them for the empowerment of Persons with Disabilities was made in the meeting. Also, the Strategies for better implementation and monitoring of PwD Act and Schemes especially in relation to the empowerment of persons with disabilities by way of recommendations are being discussed.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-1/17.05.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490013) Visitor Counter : 203