      Ministry of Railways

      Minister of Railways Inspects Rake of Tejas Train
      Posted On: 19 MAY 2017 4:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu inspected the Rake of Tejas Train. Chairman, Railway Board, Shri A. K. Mital, Member Rolling Stock Railway Board Shri Ravindra Gupta, Member Traction Shri Ghanshyam Singh, other Railway Board Members, GM Northern Railway Shri R. K. Kulshreshta and senior officials were also present on the occasion.


    Background:


    Tejas Express is a semi high speed train having modern on board facilities, enhanced passenger comfort and showcases the future of Train travel in India. Tejas Express is set to be introduced soon. The coaches are manufactured at Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala . The newly designed coaches are capable of running at a speed of 200 km/h but due to constraints related to rail tracks these coaches will run at a speed of 160 km/h. Speed potential of 200 Kmph was achieved by providing Steel brake disc, Sintered pads, Electro-pneumatic assist Brake system.


    The first rake comprising 19 coaches including sixteen non-executive and two executive chair cars besides one power coach was inspected by Minister of Railways today. One Executive Coach will be turned into a Smart Coach at a later date having extra facilities as announced in the Budget 2016-17.


    Features of Tejas Train:

     1. Bio-vacuum toilets (less water consumption and hygienic)
     2. Water level indicators
     3. Touchless Water Taps, Soap dispenser
     4. Marble finish Anti graffiti coating
     5. Hand dryers
     6. New design Dust bin
     7. Vinyl Wrapped specially designed exteriors
     8. Automatic entrance plug type doors (provides better sound and heat insulation, can be controlled by Guard panel)
     9. Secured gangways (reduce sound levels, dirt, sand, water ingress, increase passenger safety & Comfort, energy efficiency, elegant design)
    10. Electro Pneumatic Air brakes
    11. Fire & smoke detection and suppression system.
    12. Fire suppression system in Power car.
    13. CCTV cameras for security
    14. GPS based Passenger Information display System
    15. Call bell integrated with berth reading light.
    16. Digital Destination Boards
    17. Integrated braille displays
    18. E-Leather as improved upholstery
    19. Redesigned backrest with higher height
    20. Redesigned armrest
    21. Leg support for Executive Chair Car with gas spring
    22. Energy Efficient LED Lights
    23. LED TV with Touch Control for each passenger (with recorded content, can be upgraded to Live TV)
    24. Provided with USB charging facility
    25. Magazines
    26. Tea and Coffee vending machines
    27. Snack tables
    28. Local cuisine
    29. Celebrity Chef Menu

    *********


    AKS/MKV/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490310) Visitor Counter : 121
    
    
    
    
    

29.