      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri J P Nadda addresses Plenary Meeting at the 70th World Health Assembly
      Confident that India will achieve SDG 3 targets in health sector: J P Nadda

      Posted On: 23 MAY 2017 7:24PM by PIB Delhi
      “We are confident that India would be able to achieve the 9 targets under SDG 3 relating to health and well being for all at all ages.” This was stated by Shri J P Nadda, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare during his addresses at the Plenary Meeting of the 70th World Health Assembly, at Geneva today. The Union Health Minister spoke on the theme – ‘Advancing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development: building better systems for health.’
      
      Shri Nadda stressed on the importance of building a strong, resilient health system that mitigates any country’s vulnerability to health crises. He said that the achievement of health related goals and targets, in Indian context, is a daunting task, considering India’s geographical size, regional and socio-cultural diversity. “India remains committed to ensuring quality and affordable healthcare for all. We have made strategic investments under the National Health Mission and the national disease control programmes. We are committed to further strengthening the health systems,” Shri Nadda added
      
      Shri Nadda informed the participants that the National Health Policy, 2017 lays down the roadmap for various milestones and targets. “To translate the Policy into affirmative action, we are working with the States, Union Territories, academicians and development partners. A National SDG-3 Task Force has been set up with representation of key ministries, agencies and experts,” he said.
      
      Reiterating the commitment of the government, the Health Minister said that India is committed to achieving universal health coverage (UHC). He further added that health systems strengthening and universal comprehensive primary health care through Health and Wellness Centres has been identified as non-negotiable strategies towards UHC. “We plan to achieve more than 90% immunization coverage by 2020. We are rolling out universal population-based screening for common NCDs. There is more stress on quality improvement in public health service delivery. We plan to provide essential Drugs & Diagnostics-free of cost in public health facilities,” Shri Nadda stated.

      ***

      
      
      MV/SK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1490553) Visitor Counter : 81