      NITI Aayog

      Third lecture in the series ‘NITI Lectures: Transforming India’ on May 25th by renowned business strategist, economist and author, Dr. Michael Porter
      Posted On: 23 MAY 2017 6:31PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The third lecture in the ‘NITI Lectures: Transforming India’ series will be delivered by renowned American business strategist, economist and author, Dr. Michael E Porter on, Thursday, May 25th, 2017. The lecture will be centred on the theme - Competitiveness of Nations and States: New insights.

    
    To be attended by top policy makers from across Union Ministries, Dr. Porter’s address will be followed by a panel discussion with Michael Green, CEO, Social Progress Imperative, Adil Zainulbhai, chairman, Quality Council of India and Pramath Raj Sinha, founder of ISB & Ashoka University.
    
    Michael Porter is the undisputed authority on the principles of sustainable competitive advantage. One of the world’s foremost thinkers on management and competitiveness, he is currently the Bishop William Lawrence University Professor at the Harvard University. His work and thinking for the past 30 years has revolved around what actually happens on-ground – for business leaders, healthcare practitioners and patients, governments and citizens, and social organisations.
    
    'NITI Lectures: Transforming India' was inaugurated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on August 26th last year. The first key note address - India and the Global Economy - was delivered by the Hon’ble Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore, Shri Tharman Shanmugaratnam. Bill Gates, Co-Founder, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation delivered the second lecture in the high-powered lecture series on 'Technology and Transformation' on the November 16th, 2016.
    
    Through the lectures, NITI Aayog has been bringing policy makers, academics, experts and administrators of global repute to India. The aim of the series is to enable learning, both at the Centre & States, from successful development practice world over.

    ***


    
    
    AKT/AK/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490541) Visitor Counter : 114