      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      National Commission for Women holds Interactive Meeting with State Commissions for Women
      Important issues of safety, protection and rights of women discussed at the meeting
      Posted On: 25 MAY 2017 5:59PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Commission for Women organised an Interactive Meeting of the State Commissions for Women in New Delhi today with a view to strengthening the process of NCW’s networking with State Commissions for Women and to gain from each other’s experience. The primary mandate of the National Commission for Women and State Commissions for Women Commission is to safeguard and protect the interests of women. It has wide responsibility covering almost all aspects of women development.


    Speaking on the occasion, Chairperson NCW Smt. Lalitha Kumaramangalam, reiterated on the need for strengthening the process of NCW’s networking with State Commissions and to gain from each other’s experiences. Smt. Rekha Sharma, Member, NCW in her address emphasized on the need of setting up of women’s hostels in the States. Smt. Sushma Sahu, Member, NCW addressing gathering raised the issue of Acid Attack and implementation of Supreme Court guidelines on ban of unregulated sale of acid. Shri Alok Rawat, Member , NCW pointed out the problems and issues of women and girls from the North east who migrate to cities for employment and studies.


    The meeting was attended by Chairpersons, Members and Member secretaries of various State Commissions for Women. 18 States were represented i.e. Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Mizoram, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Sikkim, etc. During the meeting participants deliberated on - Safeguards provided for women under various statutes working in the States, recommendations for effective implementation of safeguards for improving the condition of women in States, issues and challenges before the State Commissions for Women, suggestions on how to strengthen convergence between the Commissions. After the day long deliberations, Dr. Satbir Bedi, Member Secretary, NCW summed up the recommendations as below:-


    i) State Commissions for Women should take up with their respective State Government for setting up of Hostels for girls and women.


    ii) State Commission should pro-actively coordinate and send feedback on the complaint matters forwarded to them by NCW in the last six months.


    iii) SCWs may pursue with the state Government on the implementation of the Supreme Court judgment on ban of un-regulated sale of acids with a view to prevent horrific crimes against women specifically acid attacks.


    Initiatives by Maharashtra State Commission for Women were applauded by all and it was decided by other members to initiate similar ones in their states. Other States, especially from the North East, raised the need for providing vocational guidance to women. Suggestions about setting up “Women’s courts” and premarital counselling were also discussed.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490829) Visitor Counter : 54