      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Environment Ministry and Ozonaction, Organize First “Ozone2Climate” Technology Roadshow Post-Kigali Amendment
      Posted On: 23 MAY 2017 5:52PM by PIB Delhi

      

        In a first, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, along with the UN Environment OzonAction’s Compliance Assistance Programme, organized an “Ozone2Climate” Technology Roadshow, post Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol, on the sidelines of the South Asia National Ozone Officers Annual Network Meeting – 2017 in Agra today. The Roadshow was inaugurated by the Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Shri Ajay Narayan Jha. The Technology Roadshow was organized for the first time as part of the annual network meeting for Ozone Officers of South Asia.


        Speaking on the occasion, Shri Jha said, the “Ozone2Climate Technology Roadshow”, had 13 exhibitors that promoted ozone and climate-friendly alternative technologies to HCFCs and HFCs in the refrigeration and air-conditioning (RAC) sector. The Technology Roadshow showcased current refrigeration and air conditioning equipment designed to be more energy efficient, hence with a double benefit of saving money for consumers, and with a much lower impact on the environment. Over 200 refrigerant technicians, ozone officers, business representatives and government officials attended the Roadshow.


        Head of the United Nations Environment’s OzonAction, Dr. Shamila Nair-Bedouelle, highlighted UNEP’s Compliance Assistance Programme (CAP) which provides significant support to Article 5 countries with meeting and sustaining their obligations under the Protocol. “The national ozone officers’ network meetings are a flagship of the CAP and offer a forum for exchange of experience and knowledge transfer among national ozone officers,” she said. Organising O2C Technology Roadshow, along with the network meeting represents an innovative approach by the South Asia network to bring the state-of-the-art technology to the policy makers, she said.


        Along with the Technology Roadshow, UN Environment is also organising the annual network meeting for South Asia Ozone Officers from May 23 to 26, 2017. The meeting focused on current policy and technology updates on ozone and climate friendly alternatives to HCFCs and HFCs specifically post-Kigali amendment, linking the HCFC phase out to future HFC phase down, the implications of Kigali amendment for the network countries and challenges and opportunities from a policy and technology perspective.


        Delegates from 20 countries and industry visited the 2017 exhibition and this was the first time the Ozone2Climate Technology Roadshow was organised as a part of the annual network meeting globally. The National Ozone Officers (NOOs) from 13 South Asia network countries visited the Technology Roadshow and gained information on state-of-the-art HCFC/HFC alternative technologies.


        Secretary, MoEFCC, Shri A. N Jha inaugurating the Technology Roadshow at Agra today.


        The Technology Roadshow was organized in association with Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Manufacturers Association (RAMA), Indian Polyurethane Association (IPUA), Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), GIZ and UNDP. Joint Secretary, MoEFCC, Shri Manoj Kumar Singh, Regional Director, UN Environment Asia Pacific Office, Dr. Dechen Tshering, Chief Officer, Multilateral Fund Secretariat, Mr. Eduardo Ganem, Executive Secretary, Ozone Secretariat, Ms. Tina Birmpili, Head of Branch, UN Environment OzonAction, Dr. Shamila Nair-Bedoulle, and Country Director, UNDP, India. Mr. Jaco Cilliers were among those present on the occasion.


        The Technology Roadshow was attended by leading ozone and climate global technology providers and several industry representatives.


        ***


        HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490533) Visitor Counter : 469