      Ministry of Education

      Shri Mahendra Nath Pandey, MoS HRD chaired the Hindi Advisory Committee meeting in New Delhi today.
      Posted On: 22 MAY 2017 8:44PM by PIB Delhi

      A meeting was held under the Chairmanship of Honourable Minister of State for Human Resource Development Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey, in Vigyan Bhawan Annexe, New Delhi today. In the meeting of the Hindi Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Human Resource Development, members of the committee, in view of the progressive use of the official language Hindi, instead of giving instructions or directions about teaching Hindi compulsorily in class IX and class X, emphasized the states to encourage teachers to teach Hindi voluntarily. The members asserted that the Commission for Scientific and Technical Terminology should prepare technical terminology in trilingual form i.e. English, Regional languages and Hindi. The committee expressed that the ministry should increase the original Hindi correspondence in the Regions 'A' 'B' and 'C' in official use of Hindi. The Committee also emphasized that to increase the use of Hindi, simple and popular words should be used instead of difficult Hindi words. Valuable suggestions were received from honorable members of the Committee. The Chair directed to conduct the next meeting within six months.
      
      In the meeting, 18 offices located in regions 'A' 'B' and 'C' were awarded Rajbhasha Shields for doing excellent work in Official Language implementation. This time two offices located in Tamil Nadu were awarded for doing excellent work in the implementation of Official Language Hindi.
      
      Secretary, Department of School Education & Literacy; Secretary, Department of Higher Education; Joint Secretary (Central Universities & Languages); Joint Secretary, D/o Official Language; Chairman, Central Board of Secondary Education; Vice Chancellor, Mahatama Gandhi Antarrashtreiya Hindi Vishawvidyalaya; Commissioner, Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti; Chairman, AICTE; Chairman, NIOS; Chairman, Commission for Scientific and Technical Terminology; Additional Commissioner, KVS; Director, Kendriya Hindi Sansthan; Director (Official Language) and other Senior officials were present in the meeting.

      ****

      
      
      GG/AK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1490407) Visitor Counter : 104