      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      DANICS officers' delegation meets Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 22 MAY 2017 6:53PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation of DANICS (Delhi Andaman Nicobar Islands Civil Service) officers met Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today and sought his intervention for issues related to their delayed promotions and upgradation of seniority lists. Led by Shri V.K. Jain and others, the officers complained that they had qualified and joined the DANICS services over 30 years ago and since then, they had been offering their services with dedication, while, in the meantime, some of them also got promoted into the Indian Administrative Service (IAS).
    
    In a memorandum presented to the Minister, the officers requested that their seniority list be worked out in the terms of unamended rules of seniority i.e. prior to the notification dated 18.04.2012. The memorandum also noted that meanwhile, these officers were constrained to knock at the door of CAT (Central Administrative Tribunal) and from there also, they had received a favourable response wherein the CAT had quashed and set aside the seniority list published vide notification dated 22.11.2012.
    
    Pleading for the CAT order to be implemented, the officers submitted that most of them were nearing superannuation and many of them would get retired in this year itself. Therefore, in recognition of their services, the DoPT should take a sympathetic view so that, before their superannuation, they have the satisfaction of at least being rewarded with their due seniority and pay-scales.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh gave a patient hearing to the DANICS officers. He said that the Government values the services of the Civil Servants who are essential for good governance and said, everything possible is always sought to be done to provide a friendly environment wherein each officer can perform to the best of his ability. He assured that he will get their representation evaluated and if feasible under rules, an appropriate view and follow-up will be done.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490396) Visitor Counter : 143