      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Union Minister Vijay Goel flags off Slum Yuva Daud
      Posted On: 26 MAY 2017 5:47PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel here today flagged off the Slum Yuva Daud to mark the beginning of the Adopt Slum Campaign initiated by the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports and Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS). The run started from Delhi University’s Shankarlal Hall and ended at the Rugby Stadium with participation of about 5000 youngsters from various slums of Delhi . Boxer MC Mary Kom and Member of Parliament Shri Bhupender Yadav were also present on the occasion.

    
    Shri Vijay Goel said, “This would enable us to gather the youth and know about their skills and ideas. We would organize mini-fests in slums with the themes of Swachhta, Digital India, BetiBachaoBetiPadao etc.” He said “We will aim at creating model slums and create groups of youth who will work as agents of change to work for the development of their respective slums/areas”.
    
    Shri Goel also stated that the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed for the cause of the weaker sections and we all must keep the fire burning, the fire that illuminates lives in a positive way and resolves social and economic issues. The Slum Yuva Daud and Adopt Slum campaigns aim at highlighting the government’s pro-people schemes among masses.
    
    He further stated that the “Adopt a Slum” campaign will involve groups like NSS, public schools, RWAs, NGOs, rotary clubs etc.
    
    The Minister himself has adopted Indra slum of Timarpur area.
    
    Renowned boxer and Member of Parliament Ms. MC Mary Kom has said that, ”Our youth has tremendous potential to bring changes in the society and must work tirelessly to hone their skills and work for nation building”.
    
    The NYKS has adopted slums across 11 districts and will work for their overall development with young volunteers.Similar runs will also be organized in many more areas of Delhi such as Wazirpur, Model Town, Adarsh Nagar, Chandni Chowk and Burari etc.

    ***


    
    
    AD/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490929) Visitor Counter : 152