      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister releases the book ‘India 2017 Yearbook’
      Posted On: 22 MAY 2017 9:20AM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister, Shri Rajnath Singh has released the book ‘India 2017 Yearbook’ authored by the Union Home Secretary, Shri Rajiv Mehrishi, here today. The CEO, NITI Aayog, Shri Amitabh Kant was also present on the occasion. The book was published by the Mc Graw Hill Education India.
    
    Shri Rajnath Singh said that the richness in contents and novelty of approach used by the author and other panel contributors including Smt. Vasundhara Raje, Dr. Arvind Subramanium, Dr. Arvind Panagariya, Shri Kamal Kishore, Dr. Rajiv Kumar, Dr. Ila Patnaik, Shri Ruchir Sharma and Shri Amitabh Kant who have earned names for themselves in their respective fields. He also said that the Book would be extremely useful for all competitive exams besides being a storehouse of knowledge stretching over a history of 300 years. He further said that every household should provide this book to children of 8th standard onwards so that they gain comprehensive knowledge of India’s history, economy, social fabric and current affairs.
    
    The Union Home Minister said that the book is written in a very professional manner and have important persons on the panel of contributors. He also said that Shri Mehrishi could do this work despite his extremely busy official responsibilities. He further said that the approach of Shri Mehrishi to handle different situations in a cool and calm manner with efficiency and accuracy reflects his time management abilities. A serving member of the Indian Administrative Service, thus, enters into the league of writers, who will be remembered as an intellectual apart from his administrative capabilities and long stint in Government service, he added.
    
    While addressing, the Union Home Secretary, Shri Rajiv Mehrishi said that the book is a comprehensive compendium of all data and facts related to the Indian Union, including geographical information. He also said that the book is an honest endeavor on his behalf to provide a strong resource for civil services preparations with wide ranging study materials. He expressed his hope that it proves to be a useful tool to the civil services and other competitive exams aspirants in their preparation.
    
    While addressing, the CEO, NITI Aayog, Shri Amitabh Kant recalled his association with Shri Mehrishi and praised his unparalleled acumen as a civil servant. He also said that the aspirants of Civil Services and other competitive examinations will be able to crack the exams just by referring this one stop repository of knowledge.
    
    The chapters of the Book are divided into four broad groups covering Indian geography, history, polity, demography, economy, development schemes, environment, disaster management, media and communication, foreign policy, J&K and newsmakers in India. The Book also deals with general knowledge, viz., general information, culture, monuments and cultural institutions of India and miscellaneous general topics among many other subjects.
    
    India 2017 YEARBOOK is published annually and provides information on current affairs of the Indian Union, including facts on Indian policy, political systems, the Indian Constitution and states, international relations and recent issues like the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor and demonetization.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/KM/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490409) Visitor Counter : 121