      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      President presents Dr Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding and Upliftment of Weaker Sections
      Posted On: 26 MAY 2017 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


      The President of India Shri Pranab Mukharjee presented the “Dr. Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding and up-liftment of Weaker Sections for the year 2011, 2012 and 2014” at a function here today. The function was organized by The Ambedkar Foundation under Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The award consists of a citation and Rs. 10.00 lakh as cash prize. The award for the year 2011 was presented to Professor S.K. Thorat on New Delhi for his contributions towards the upliftment of the downtrodden. The award for the year 2012 was presented to Samta Sainik Dal for its extraordinary services. The award for the year 2014 was jointly presented to Shri Babu Lal Nirmal of Rajasthan for his extraordinary contributions in upholding the rights of poor persons in rural and urban areas of Baran District and to Amar Sewa Sangam of Tamil Nadu for its extraordinary services being extended for the welfare of the marginalized population of the society including the physically and mentally challenged persons.


      Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot presided over the function. Ministers of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Ramdas Athawale, Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar and Shri Vijay Sampla, Secretary, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment Smt. Latha Krishna Rao and many other dignitaries were present.


      The award was instituted by the Government of India in the year 1992 and is given for outstanding contribution to the promotion of Social Understanding and for the upliftment of the Weaker sections in India. One Award each year is presented to individuals or organizations and is presented jointly or shared by more than one recipient or organization as may be considered by the Jury to be equally deserving of recognition in the year.


      Addressing on the occasion President Shri Pranab Mukherjee said that social justice is the most important factor in the development of a developing country. He said that political freedom is nothing, political liberation is nothing, political justice is nothing, unless there is social justice. Indian Constitution starts with “We the people of India” and it has given the people justice, equality and liberty. He said that the Government alone cann’t do such things and the involvement of people and organizations is necessary. He congratulated the Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Gehlot and Ministry officials for extraordinary work done by the Ministry. He congratulated the awardees for this prestigious award and called upon the people to emulate their principles.


      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot in his address said that the Government has undertaken a series of initiatives for social justice and empowerment and ‘Samata and Samajik Samrasta’ are the guiding principles in this direction. He dwelt upon many Government schemes being run in the name of Dr. Ambedkar. He said that the five places relating to Dr. Ambedkar namely Janam Bhoomi, Mhow, Shiksha Bhoomi 10, King Henry Road, London, Deeksha Bhoomi, Nagpur, Parinirvan Bhoomi, 26, Alipur Road, New Delhi and Chaitya Bhoomi, Dadar, Mumbai were declared ‘Panchtirth’ by the Government of India. Referring to Dr. Ambedkar scheme for Social integration through Inter Caste marriages, the Minister said that the objective of the scheme is to appreciate the socially bold step, of an Inter-Caste marriage, taken by the newly married couple and to extend financial incentive to the couple to enable them to settle down in the initial phase of the married life. He emphasized that the Government is committed for the social, economic and educational uplift of the Scheduled Castes and has therefore enunciated policies and schemes across different Ministries for targeted benefit and progress of the scheduled castes. He said that Dr. Ambedkar International Centre is being set up at 15, Janpath, New Delhi and Dr Ambedkar National Memorial at 26, Alipur Road, Delhi.


      Shri Ramdas Athawale in his welcome address gave an overview of the prestigious Dr. Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding and Upliftment of Weaker Sections. Smt. Latha Krishana Rao, Secretary proposed the Vote of Thanks.


      Dr. Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding and Upliftment of Weaker Sections was instituted by the Government of India in the year 1992, in pursuance of a decision of the Centenary Celebrations Committee of Babasaheb Dr. B.R. Ambedkar headed by the then Prime Minister of India. As per its Code of Procedure, the Award is given for outstanding contribution to the promotion of Social Understanding and for the Upliftment of the Weaker Sections in India. A Jury constituted for the purpose considers the achievements of the individuals and organizations nominated / recommended for the Award by the prescribed authorities. The efforts made towards integrating the weaker sections into the mainstream of Indian society, working for their socio-economic and educational upliftment is the primary consideration in identifying the Awardee.


      As per the Code of Procedure of the National Award, one Award each year is presented to individuals or organizations. The Award is presented jointly or shared by more than one recipient or organization as may be considered by the Jury to be equally deserving of recognition in the year. The award consists of a citation and Rs. 10.00 lakh as cash prize.


      The Dr. Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding and Upliftment of Weaker Sections for the year 2014 was jointly conferred on “Shri Babu Lal Nirmal, Rajasthan” for his extraordinary contributions in upholding the rights of poor persons in rural and urban areas of Baran District and on “Amar Sewa Sangam, Tamil Nadu” for its extraordinary services being extended for the welfare of the marginalized population of the society including the physically and mentally challenged persons.


      Born on 9 th July, 1959 in Ataru Rajasthan, Shri Babu Lal Nirmal, is considered to be the voice of the oppressed and neglected people of the society in Rajasthan. He is a known face in Baran district, who has established a strong network for assisting the needy population in making them aware of their rights.


      Established in the year 1981 in a thatched shed, Amar Sewa Sangam Ayikudy, Tirunelvili, Tamil Nadu, today is a premier institution in the field of Divyangjan Management in the country. The Sangam has raised their performance to prove to the people that disability is not a constraint but only a condition that is to be understood and lived with.


      Dr. Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding and Upliftment of Weaker Sections for the year 2012 was conferred on “Samta Sainik Dal” for it’s extraordinary services. The Samta Sainik Dal, an independent and non-political organization was founded by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on 25 th November 1926 for organizing public meetings of his followers to participate in the activities for upliftment of the oppressed and neglected people of the Indian society.


      Dr. Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding and Upliftment of Weaker Sections for the year 2011 is conferred on “Professor S.K. Thorat, New Delhi” for his contributions towards the upliftment of the downtrodden. Born on 12 th July, 1949 in village-Mahimapur of District Amaravati, Maharashtra, Prof. S.K Thorat is a well known scholar. He did his Ph.D in Economics from Jawahar Lal Nehru University (JNU) and Diploma in Economic Planning from the Main School of Planning, Warsaw, Poland.


      The President, Shri Pranab Mukherjee presenting the Dr. Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding & Upliftment of Weaker Sections for the year 2014 to Shri Babu Lal Nirmal, Rajasthan in New Delhi on May 26, 2017 .


      The President, Shri Pranab Mukherjee presenting the Dr. Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding & Upliftment of Weaker Sections for the year 2014 to Amar Sewa Sangam, Tamil Nadu in New Delhi on 26 th May 2017.


      The President, Shri Pranab Mukherjee presenting the Dr. Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding & Upliftment of Weaker Sections for the year 2012 to Samata Sainik Dal in New Delhi on 26 th May 2017.


      The President, Shri Pranab Mukherjee presenting the Dr. Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding & Upliftment of Weaker Sections for the year 2011 to Professor S.K. Thorat in New Delhi on 26 th May 2017.


      The President, Shri Pranab Mukherjee at the presentation of the Dr. Ambedkar National Award for Social Understanding & Upliftment of Weaker Sections for the year 2011, 2012 and 2014, in New Delhi on May 26, 2017. The Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot and the Ministers of State for Social Justice & Empowerment, Shri Krishan Pal, Shri Vijay Sampla and Shri Ramdas Athawale are also seen.


      *****


      Sanjay Kumar/jk/M/o-SJ&E/26-05-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490960) Visitor Counter : 99