      President's Secretariat

      President of India receives books ‘Mann Ki Baat: a social revolution on radio’ and ‘marching with a billion - analysing Narendra Modi’s government at Mid Term’
      Posted On: 26 MAY 2017 5:55PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee received the first copies of books ‘Mann Ki Baat: A Social Revolution on Radio’ and ‘Marching with a Billion- Analysing Narendra Modi’s Government at Midterm’ from Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, Speaker Lok Sabha who formally released these books at a function at Rashtrapati Bhavan today in the presence of Mohd. Hamid Ansari, Vice President of India, Shri Arun Jaitley, Union Minister of Finance and Defence and other dignitaries.

    
    Speaking on the occasion, the President said effective communication is important for any leader. Without having the capacity to communicate, a leader may not be able to inspire people to follow his ideas and approach. He said that undoubtedly, in the contemporary period Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is one of the most effective communicators of the times. In independent India, Prime Minister Pt. Nehru effectively propagated the values in our Constitution including secularism. Smt. Indira Gandhi mobilized public in favour of the Liberation war of Bangladesh effectively. Various initiatives taken by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi have resulted in the Indian economy moving forward in a steadfast manner.
    
    The President congratulated and expressed gratitude to the publishers for bringing out the two books. He said the books cover important issues of topical concern and should have a wide readership because of their inherent merit.
    
    Vice President of India, Mohd. Hamid Ansari, Speaker Lok Sabha, Smt. Sumitra Mahajan and Union Minister for Finance and Defence, Shri Arun Jaitley also addressed the gathering and gave an account of how the books capture key aspects of the personality of Shri Narendra Modi and achievements of the Government.
    
    The book ‘Mann Ki Baat: A Social Revolution on Radio’ is a compilation of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s addresses to the nation on radio every month under the programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’. It contains a comprehensive, qualitative and academic analysis of ‘Mann Ki Baat’ – the themes, the choice of topics, the salient features. It illustrates how ‘Mann Ki Baat’ has connected with the ‘New India’ – the youth in particular. It also presents a coherent narrative about the manner in which ‘Mann Ki Baat’ has created mass movements, be it in cleanliness, in promoting India’s tourism potential, safer roads, drugs free India etc. The book has been compiled by Shri Rajesh Jain.
    
    The book ‘Marching with a Billion- Analysing Narendra Modi’s Government at Midterm’ analyses the monumental changes that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has brought on multiple fronts as Prime Minister on India’s governance landscape by ushering in an unprecedented culture of transparency to create a level playing field so necessary in a developing country. It is authored by Shri Uday Mahurkar.
    
    The books have been brought out by ‘BlueKraft Digital Foundation’ and ‘LexisNexis’.

    *****


    AKT/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490937) Visitor Counter : 133