      AYUSH

      Mega Event of IDY-2017 led by the Prime Minister to be Organised in Lucknow: Shri Shripad Yesso Naik
      Nearly 51,000 people expected to participate in the main event at Ramabhai Ambedkar Sabha Sthal
      Posted On: 25 MAY 2017 5:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The capital of Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow, will host the main mega event of this year’s International Day of Yoga on 21st June and the event will be led by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi. This was formally announced by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik at a media briefing in New Delhi today. Addressing the media persons, the AYUSH Minister said, Ministers of the Government of India, Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh and several Yoga Gurus are also expected to take part in the event at Lucknow. The venue for IDY-2017 is Ramabhai Ambedkar Sabha Sthal in Lucknow and nearly 51,000 people are expected to demosntrate Common Yoga Protocol along with the dignitaries in this event.


    Shri Naik informed that besides the main event in Lucknow, Delhi will also hold events in seven places . These events are being planned in association with NDMC, DDA and different Yoga Organisations. The locations of these events include Cannaught Place(NDMC), Nehru Park(NDMC), Lodhi Garden(NDMC), Talkatora Garden(NDMC), Dwarka(DDA), Rohini(DDA) and Khureji(DDA), he added. Shri Naik also said that besides this, the leading Yoga Organisations are planning several other programmes on the occasion of IDY – 2017 in Delhi as well as other parts of the country and also outside the country.


    Shri Shripad Yesso Naik further explained that all the Central Government Ministries, Departments, their subordinate organisations are planning to celebrate the Yoga day in a grand manner. Similarly, the State Governments have also planned several programmes for the IDY-2017 . Besides these, NCC, NSS, Nehru Yuva Kendras, major Educational Institutes, Defence Forces, Para Military Forces, Corporates, Business groups have also been roped in for the celebration of Yoga Day in their own way.


    The AYUSH Minister also said that the Central Council for Research In Yoga & Naturopathy (CCRYN) is conducting One Month free Yoga camp in almost all the districts of the country through Govt. and Private Organisations. He said that the training programme has already started from 21st May, 2017.


    Giving further details, Shri Naik said that Ministry of AYUSH is planing to have a few Yoga Parks across the country, specially meant for Yoga activities throughout the year, which will be managed voluntarily by the Yoga or other organisations. He said that it is expected that nearly 100 such Yoga parks will come up within this year, which will be further expanded subsequently.


    In his welcome address, Secretary , Health and Family Welfare and AYUSH, Shri C.K Mishra said that a sustainable Yoga atmosphere should be created throughout the year by organising Yoga activities even after the International Day of Yoga is over. The Yoga institutuions/organisations in and around Lucknow will be actively involved in the main event this year, he added.


    To make the celebration of International Day of Yoga a continuous process, Ministry of AYUSH had organised few Yoga Fests in the state capitals of the country and is expected to organise few more such Yoga fests in the days to come. Ministry of AYUSH has also requested Ministry of External Affairs to organise such Yoga Fests in the Indian Missions abroad.


    * ****


    NB/SK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490820) Visitor Counter : 57