      Ministry of Urban Development

      Progress of new urban missions in Chattisgarh to be reviewed tomorrow in Raipur
      Implementation of missions reviewed in 19 States so far covering an investment of Rs.3 lakh crores
      
      Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu says high level reviews in State Capitals to ensure timely execution

      Posted On: 25 MAY 2017 2:27PM by PIB Delhi

    Progress of new urban missions launched during the last three years in Chattisgarh will be reviewed in a high level meeting in Raipur tomorrow.


    Minister of Urban Development and Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu, Chattisgarh Chief Minister Shri Raman Singh, concerned State Ministers, senior officials from central and state governments including National and State level mission directors will participate in the discussions on implementation issues and progress of different missions.


    Five Urban Missions viz., Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), Smart City Mission, Swachh Bharat Mission, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) and Deen Dayal Antyodaya Yojana-NULM in Chattisgarh will be reviewed in detail.


    In a new initiative to ensure timely implementation of projects under new urban missions, Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu has undertaken such joint reviews with Chief Ministers in respective capital cities in 19 States that accounted for an investment of about Rs.3.00 lakh cr approved under different missions out of the total investment of over Rs.4.00 lakh cr so far approved. Chattisgarh will be the twentieth to be reviewed tomorrow.


    The States that were so far reviewed during the last three months are ; Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Goa, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh.


    Progress of metro projects and heritage infrastructure development projects is also reviewed wherever they are being implemented.


    These reviews are aimed at ensuring timely execution and completion of projects within the mission period i.e by 2019-20 except in case of PMAY(Urban) under which all the eligible beneficiaries are to be enabled to own a house by 2022. Each review meeting lasts over four hours.


    Ahead of Chattisgarh review tomorrow, Shri Venkaiah Naidu today said that he was delighted over the useful reviews in 19 States as they proved to be beneficial for both the central and state governments in the implementation.


    AAR/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490745) Visitor Counter : 36