      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction in Cancun, Mexico
      Posted On: 25 MAY 2017 5:05PM by PIB Delhi


    2017 Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction opened in Cancun, Mexico yesterday. The Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju is leading the Indian delegation. Shri Rijiju made the country statement in the special session organized for the Ministers. The members of the delegation, - Dr. P.K. Mishra, Additional Principal Secretary to Prime Minister and Shri Kamal Kishore, Member NDMA, addressed the gathering in two different thematic sessions.


    While addressing in critical infrastructure session Dr. P.K. Mishra said that the damage and loss resulting from impacts on critical infrastructure accounts for as high as 66% of the public sector losses and there is also the untold story of small and medium scale disasters, where the damage to infrastructure may not be catastrophic but its progressive degradation leads to productivity losses and makes communities dependent on this infrastructure more vulnerable. These damages disrupt economic and social activities and lead to hardship and distress, particularly for the poor and handicapped.


    While referring to PM’s 10 point agenda for Disaster Risk Reduction, Dr. Mishra emphasized for international cooperation and initiative of forming a coalition on risk resilient infrastructure which will address the most pressing needs in infrastructure development and help us create a knowledge base that will benefit all countries. Preliminarily, the focus will be on four thematic areas, - Understanding of risk in infrastructure sectors, risk metrics, indicators of sustainability, better standards of design, operations and maintenance, enforcement, regulation, Regulating the professions, financing of disaster resilient infrastructure and mechanisms to support recovery in infrastructure sectors.


    Shri Kamal Kishore, in his address on monitoring the progress of Sendai Framework, flagged the clarity of each partner and said their roles should be very clearly defined and the monitoring indicators should align with the system of governance. He said that appropriate time should also be given for understanding the monitoring indicators and efforts should be made for capacity development so that it should be understood properly at every level of governance.


    On the sidelines, Shri Rijiju held two delegation level bilateral meetings with Mongolia and Indonesia for future collaboration for Disaster Management. Minister of Interior led Indonesian team and Deputy Prime Minister, Mongolia led the Mongolian Government team. Dr. P.K Mishra also participated in the meeting. On the request made by these countries, India has offered to help both the countries for disaster management, response and capacity building. A draft MoU will be shared amongst the countries to have specific areas of collaboration.


    A unique plan made by Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India for protecting animals was also launched in the global platform.


    ****


    KSD/NK/PK/KM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1490897) Visitor Counter : 132