      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Dr. Jitendra Singh visits North East Organic Showroom-cum-Restaurant at Dilli Haat
      Posted On: 28 MAY 2017 4:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh, made a visit to the recently launched North East Organic Showroom-cum-Restaurant situated at Dilli Haat, INA, here today.


    The Showroom-cum-Restaurant is managed by theNorth Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Limited, NERAMAC Ltd., a CPSE under MDoNER in its flagship brand, “ONE” (Organic North East). The initiative has also been supported by a mission for NER by both Ministry of DoNER and Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Govt. of India.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Jitendra Singh said, NERAMAC has always worked towards promoting Agri-Horticulture produce of North East Region. It has played a key role in socio-economic development of Farmers and small Agri-preneurs of NER by undertaking various activities in the region. People in other parts of the country are yet to be introduced to the rich and healthy organic produce of the North-Eastern Region and once this happens, they would spontaneously come looking for it. This will not only give a boost to trade and business, but also help in enhancing Farmer’s income of NER, he added.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh further said that in the absence of organised ‘Mandis’ in most parts of the North East, one of the priority activities of NERAMAC should be to act as a Lead Aggregator of agri-horti produce in NER, particularly when 80-82 per cent of the Agri-horti produce from the region happens to be organic in nature. NERAMAC is committed in giving market linkages to the farmers and Agri-peneurs of NER, which has been the major obstacle in the socio- economic development of the farmers of region, he added.


    The North East Organic Showroom-cum-Restaurant at Dilli Haat will showcase exotic and healthy products from all the eight states of North East Region, where people can purchase goods directly at the best price available. The concept of such showroom is to promote healthy food available from NER for increasing health conscious population of the country.


    Dr. Singh also said, “The showroom gives a great platform for Entrepreneurs, Agri-preneurs & Farmers of North East who can showcase and sell their organic produce. We are confident that organic food processors & farmers of North East will benefit from this outlet. With the new brand ONE (Organic North East), all the North Eastern farmers come under one common brand and this increases their bargaining power to a great extent to get premium rates. The outlet will not only help the Farmers and Food Processors of North East to increase their income but also promote the culture and traditions of North East and boost tourism."


    The showroom-cum-restaurant at Dilli Haat is just the start. DoNER Ministry also supports that the project will expand in entire Delhi NCR and all other major metros like Mumbai, Chennai and Bangalore on franchise basis.


    ***


    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491061) Visitor Counter : 27