      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Swachh Bharat Mission to go all out for ‘Darwaza Band’
      Amitabh Bachchan led Toilet Usage Campaign set for national launch
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2017 4:23PM by PIB Delhi


    For promotion of toilet usage across the country’s villages, the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation has come out with an aggressive new campaign called Darwaza Band starting tomorrow, May 30th, 2017.


    Iconic actor, Shri Amitabh Bachchan, who leads the campaign, is proposed to be joined by Union Minister for Drinking Water and Sanitation, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Chief Minister of Maharashtra Shri Devendra Fadnavis, Secretary, Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Shri Parameswaran Iyer, and other dignitaries at the formal launch event in Mumbai tomorrow. Champion functionaries from the State will also be awarded on the occasion.


    The campaign has been supported by the World Bank and is being rolled out countrywide immediately after the launch. It is designed to encourage behaviour change in men who have toilets but are not using them. The campaign also features actor, Ms Anushka Sharma, who will be seen encouraging women to stand up for this issue in their villages and assume a leadership role.


    Shri Bachchan has been a major supporter and ambassador for the Swachh Bharat Mission and is already associated with its ongoing campaigns. Behaviour change has been the focus of Swachh Bharat Mission, which is being pursued through a countrywide comprehensive IEC(Information-Education-Communication) programme. Communication campaigns have been taken up both, at the central and State levels, for promoting sustained use of toilets and for sustaining the Open Defecation Free status achieved.


    The Union Minister and the State Chief Minister will also review the working of the Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) programme in Maharashtra ahead of the event.


    <><><><><>


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491138) Visitor Counter : 60