      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Kiren Rijiju attends Closing Ceremony of SSB’s 7th Inter-Frontier Band Competition
      Posted On: 31 MAY 2017 7:10PM by PIB Delhi


    The closing ceremony of Sashastra Seema Bal’s (SSB) 7th Inter-Frontier Band Competition was held here yesterday. The Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju was the Chief Guest of the closing ceremony which was studded with dazzling programmes and prize distribution.
    
    Addressing the gathering, Shri Rijiju said that Bands in the Security Forces have a long history. Earlier during war time instruments like Truhi, Shankh were used to start or end the war whereas Drum Rolls and Nagada were used to announce attack and other tactics in the war field. Similarly during modern days, the band is an integral part of ceremonial events and parades. Bands play motivating tunes to keep the morale of troops high and also entertain the troops during their leisure time.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Director General, SSB Smt. Archana Ramasundaram said this Inter-Frontier Band Competition was started in 2011 with a motive to provide a platform for the band performers. She congratulated all the SSB Frontier Band Team participants and motivated them to excel in all competitions.
    
    Smt. Renuka Mishra, IG (P&T), in her address, highlighted about the number of Bands SSB is having at present and the prominent place which SSB occupies among All India Police Band competition.
    
    The evening started with a spectacular demonstration of synchronised Pipe and Brass Band of Silliguri Frontier, which was followed by splendid display by others participant band teams. A symphony concert was organised in which members of SSB’s Central Band Team also participated. DG, SSB applauded the contribution of Retd. Col. GP Thapliyal and Major Ashok Kumar in preparing this concert.
    
    The Siliguri Frontier secured First position in Brass Band, Lucknow Frontier secured First position in Bugler competition, Patna Frontier was adjudged First in Pipe and Brass Band whereas Jazz Band competition was won by Guwahati Frontier.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491459) Visitor Counter : 116