      Ministry of Defence

      Defence Minister Arun Jaitley dedicates Aeronautical Test range to The Nation
      Posted On: 28 MAY 2017 10:47AM by PIB Delhi


    

    The Defence Minister Shri Arun Jaitley today inaugurated the newly built Aeronautical Test Range (ATR) of the Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) at Chitradurga in Karnataka. Addressing a gathering of eminent scientists and other defence personnel on the occasion, the Defence Minister said facilities such as the ATR will help in creating conditions for research, which will in turn develop the type of human resource in the country required in the field of aeronautical testing.

    
    Complimenting the vital role of the DRDO towards self-reliance and promoting ‘Make in India’ efforts, Shri Jaitley said the development of the test range will cater to the needs of DRDO for testing of indigenously developed aeronautical systems. He said the facility would also contribute to the development of the region in which Chitradurga is located.
    
    The ATR is the first of its kind range in the country exclusively meant to conduct flight-tests of indigenous unmanned and manned aircrafts, developed by the DRDO including the naval and trainer versions of the Light Combat Aircraft, the unmanned air vehicles- Rustom-I and Rustom-II (Tapas); the Airborne Early Warning & Control Systems (AEW&C), Air-to-Ground weapons, parachutes and aerostats, etc. This outdoor testing and evaluating facility has been set up by the Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE), one of the premier laboratories of the DRDO.
    
    Spread across 4,029 acres, the 28 kilometre perimeter strategic test range envisages a two kilometre runway besides other tracking and control equipment where a rail link to the facility has also been planned. The State-of-the-Art Range Control Centre (RCC) houses the Air Traffic Display System with remote control of Radar operations, ATC RF Voice communication system, Ground Telemetry system, Mission Video Distribution and Display System and Range Operational Communication System. The Radar centre houses Primary Radar and Secondary Surveillance Radar (MSSR). About 200 acres of land outside the technical area is earmarked for a township with a shopping complex, school, hospital and transit facility.
    
    The landmark event was attended by Shri S. Thippeswamy, MLA Molakalmuru and Shri Janardhana Swamy former MP, Chitradurga , Dr S. Christopher Chairman DRDO along with a large number of officers of the DRDO and the Armed Forces, civil administration and other invitees.

    ****


    
    
    NW/DK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491043) Visitor Counter : 143