      Ministry of Communications

      Communications Minister Shri Manoj Sinha announces International mega event India Mobile Congress 2017, unveils Logo
      Posted On: 30 MAY 2017 8:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Communications Shri Manoj Sinha today made the formal announcement of India Mobile Congress 2017 (IMC 2017), country’s first & the biggest platform to bring together all stakeholders from the domain of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and take the Indian telecom industry at par with its international counterparts.
    
    The three-day IMC will be held from 27th to 29th September 2017 at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi and will see participation of government bodies, Telecom Service Providers (TSPs), telecom equipment manufacturers, handset manufacturers and app providers.
    
    While announcing the schedule of the event and releasing its logo, Shri Sinha said, “The India Mobile Congress will be the biggest event of the telecom industry and it will bring together all stakeholders from the industry and government on a common platform. It will be an exciting opportunity for all involved to explore and achieve new heights in the world of Information and Communication Technology. It is a proud moment for all of us and I am sure no stone will be left unturned to ensure the success of this mega event.”
    
    IMC 2017 will bring together the global mobile industry, showcase exciting new products & innovation and share the India story, bringing the world to Delhi. The event is being organised by Department of Telecommunications along with Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) and other stakeholders. Besides the stalwarts of the Indian telecom industry, the event will also see participation of various top notch international players who would be exploring avenues for investment in the country.
    
    He further mentioned that the need for such a mega event was long felt and it will play a big role in taking the Indian telecom industry at the international arena and provide the right platform for development of ideas and new technology.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Additional Secretary, Telecom, Mr N Sivasailam said, “India Mobile Congress will be the marquee event of India. Over the years, various stakeholders will look forward to this event for launches or new releases of new technologies. Government of India along with Dept. of Telecommunication are supporting this as an annual event, just like the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. India has a huge market and apart from that, South-East Asia has immense potential.”
    
    Terming it as a “mega event” of the Indian telecom industry, he added, “The annual show will showcase latest innovations in telecom sector not just from India but also from different parts of the world.”
    
    India is on the cusp of a digital revolution and the telecom industry is gradually evolving from a pure voice market to a mix of voice and data services. The proliferation of data will enable the spread of financial services and improves access to education governance and health services. With the Government's favourable regulation policies and 4G services hitting the market, the Indian telecommunication sector is expected to witness a fast growth in the coming years.

    <><><><><>


    
    
    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491396) Visitor Counter : 233