      PIB Headquarters

      BSNL to set up 4G Wifi hotspots in 1070 locations in Kerala
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2017 5:34PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    BSNL plans to set up 1070 BSNL 4G plus Wifi Hotspots in rural exchanges in Kerala with the Union Government’s Universal Service Obligation Fund aid within the next six months. BSNL Kerala circle Chief General Manager Dr. P.T Mathew ITS in a Press Conference in Thiruvananthapuram said that users will be able to download 4GB data per month free through these hotspots. Users can access Wifi within a radius of 100 metre.


    As per Supreme Court’s direction linking of mobile numbers with Aadhaar card is progressing. 6.2 lakh customers have completed reverification of mobile numbers with Aadhaar in Kerala Circle. The Chief General Manager informed that the customers can re verify their mobile numbers with Aadhaar card through BSNL customer care centres, direct selling agents and retailers.


    BSNL is implementing a camera surveillance system in Kollam and Trissur districts in association with respective district police and Corporation. When the project is completed whole city can be viewed from the police control room.


    Dr. P. T Mathew said that BSNL has nearly 96 lakh mobile customers in Kerala and the aim is to increase it to 1 crore. Special BSNL Melas will be organized for this purpose. He informed that BSNL 4G facility will be available in Thiruvananthapuram by the end of this year.


    For improving 3G coverage in Lakshadweep 12 new 3G towers will be installed. Presently 3G coverage is available only in four islands. A project to provide broadband/FTTH to LP,UP and High Schools in the state is nearing completion.


    BSNL has waived off installation charges for new landline, broadband and FTTH subscribers. Those who have not subscribed to landlines can opt for LL49 plan with a monthly charge of just Rs. 49 (for 6 months). Disconnected landline customers can also opt for this plan. New broadband subscribers can opt for unlimited broadband at just Rs.249 per month with 2 Mbps speed upto 5 GB and 1 Mbps thereafter, Experience unlimited Broadband 249 plan is extended till 30.09.2017.


    39,242 mobile subscribers have already ported in to BSNL during this Financial Year. In the last Financial Year 2,47,367 subscriber ported-in to BSNL through MNP


    BSNL will tie up with cable operators for using their infrastructure to provide services at rural areas. Dr. P. T Mathew said that about 20,000 complaints were received regarding the virus attack in BSNL network last week and all of them were adressed. He added that security have been strengthened in the server of BSNL in Bangalore for preventing such attacks in future.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1498072) Visitor Counter : 148
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam