      PIB Headquarters

      COAST GUARD LAW AND OPERATIONS COURSE COMPLETED
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2017 11:03AM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    37 Assistant Commandants of the 64 th Batch passed out of the portals of Indian Coast Guard Training Center on successful completion of CG Law and Operations Course today. On this occasion, an impressive Passing Out Parade (POP) was held at Indian Coast Guard District Headquarters No. 4, Kochi. The Passing Out Parade was reviewed by Inspector General KR Nautiyal, PTM, TM, Commander Coast Guard Region (West).


    During the ceremonial review, the chief guest awarded book prizes to the meritorious trainee officers. Assistant Commandant BM Muralidharan was awarded 1 st prize for scoring highest marks in the passing out batch. The coveted “Director General Sword of Honour” for the 63 rd Batch was awarded to Assistant Commandant Arun Palani Kumar S for standing first in overall order of merit.


    Speaking on the occasion, Inspector General KR Nautiyal advised the officer trainees of the importance of honing the skills they have gained during their training and reiterated the need for setting high standards of professionalism and conduct as becoming of an officer in Indian Coast Guard. He impressed upon the officers the need to uphold the stature, honour and the glorious tradition of the service at all times and expressed the optimism that this training would form strong bedrock for the professional competence and leadership expected from an officer in the Indian Coast Guard.


    This POP marked the successful culmination of the Technical Courses for the trainee officers. During the 11.2 weeks CG Law and Operations Course, the officers were imparted instructions on Coast Guard specific subjects such as Maritime Law, Search and Rescue, Fisheries Monitoring & Control, Prevention and Control of Marine Pollution and other subjects related to the CG Charter of Duties. Value addition was further done to the training being imparted by practical and professional visit.


    The POP was witnessed by a large number of senior Naval and Coast Guard Officers and families as well as civilian dignitaries.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1498916) Visitor Counter : 67