      PIB Headquarters

      SOUTHERN NAVAL COMMAND CELEBRATES 70 YEARS OF INDEPENDENCE
      Posted On: 15 AUG 2017 2:18PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Southern Naval Command (SNC) celebrated the 71stIndependence Day of the Nation with a Ceremonial Parade reviewed by Vice Admiral A R Karve, AVSM, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Southern Naval Command. The Admiral had earlier paid floral tributes at the War Memorial for departed shipmates.


    Later, while addressing the parade he extended his greetings of the day to all personnel of SNC and highlighted the tremendous advances our country has made in defence, space, science and technology while becoming one of the biggest economies in the world. He reiterated that it is important for each and every one in the Southern Naval Command to train hard to be able to carry out his or her duty with professionalism and confidence, whether they be on board ship, submarine, aircraft or in a shore unit. The C-in-C said that the armed forces needed to be ready to face the present security challenges in the maritime domain and fully dedicated to serve the nation. He also complemented the parade for its smart turnout and crisp drill movements.


    24 Platoons including 6 Armed Platoons attended the Parade. The President’s Colours which was presented to the Southern Naval Command by the then President Late Shri Giani Zail Singh was also paraded accompanied by a 50 men Guard of honour. The Parade was commanded by Commander Sachin Rawat. Rear Admiral R J Nadkarni, Chief of Staff, SNC conducted the parade. Southern Naval Command band was in attendance.


    All the Naval ships based at Kochi were also ceremonially dressed overall with multi-coloured signal flags and pennants to mark the festive occasion. The festivities culminated in ‘Barakhana’ wherein naval personnel enjoyed a special meal together.


    Earlier, at midnight of 14/15 Aug 17, a 70 km ultra marathon, to commemorate 70 years of independence was flagged off by Rear Admiral K Swaminathan, Chief Staff Officer (training). A number of naval personnel led by Commodore Joginder Chandna, Chief Staff Officer (Personnel & Administration) participated in the event as an expression of solidarity to the cause of nation building. The marathon was successfully completed at 9:30 am on 15 Aug by Commodore Joginder Chandna, Sub Lieutenant Nitin and Sub Lieutenant Deepak Kadian.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499710) Visitor Counter : 80