      PIB Headquarters

      All Political parties should support demand for increasing reservation:Minister of State Ramdas Athawale
      Posted On: 29 AUG 2017 7:43PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale has favoured an increase in reservations by 25% to accommodate a few other castes without touching the quota of SC, ST, and OBC population. Addressing a news conference in Thiruvananthapuram today he appealed to all political parties to come forward and support this demand. The Minister pointed out that different communities in various states like Marathas in Maharashtra, Patels in Gujarat , Jat community in Haryana are demanding economic reservation.


    Sri. Athawale said the Central government should change laws suitably to meet the demand for quota by those not covered. However, 77 % of SC, ST and OBC population is getting 49.5 % reservation, and it should not be touched and the creamy layer condition should be implemented. He said atrocities on Dalits are mainly due to the reservation issue. For national integration and ensuring economic justice, any family whose annual income is under eight lakh rupees should be given reservation. He said the Nambodiry and Nair communities in Kerala should also get economic reservation .


    The Minister earlier reviewed the Centrally aided projects related to welfare of Scheduled Castes , backward classes and Persons with Disability, at a meeting with state government officials. He said atrocities against Dalits are less in Kerala compared to other states. Shri. Athawale pointed out that during 2016-17 267 cases on atrocities against Dalits were registered and the Department of Social Justice has given Rs.2.52 lakh as compensation to the victims. In 2017-18 so far only 96 cases have been registered. There is also good progress in the promotion of inter caste marriages, which will ultimately end casteism.


    The Minister said the Centre is in the process of granting Deemed University status to the National Institute of Speech and Hearing in Thiruvananthapuram.


    Pointing out that politics will not come in the way of Narendra Modi government in helping states in issues of development, Sri. Athawale said whatever proposals coming from the state will be given due consideration.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1502010) Visitor Counter : 26