      PIB Headquarters

      TRAINING ON “MANAGING BIOSECURITY TREATMENT SYSTEMS” AT THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PLANT HEALTH MANAGEMENT
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2017 6:42PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare, Government of India in collaboration with Department of Agriculture and Water Resources, Government of Australia organized and conducted 3 days training on “Managing Biosecurity Treatment Systems” at the National Institute of Plant Health management, Hyderabad from August 07 to 09, 2017. Addressing a Press Conference here on Wednesday, Smt. G. Jayalakshmi, IAS, Director General of NIPHM informed that the programme was conducted by Australian biosecurity experts Mr. Nathan Reid and Mr. Gordon Weinert fromb Dept. of Agriculture and Water Resources, Australia.


    Smt. Jayalakshmi said that the programme covered the aspects of different biosecurity treatments for different agro products and also the need for audit requirements in the field of biosecurity treatments. Around 31 officers from Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine&Storage and faculty from NIPHM participated were trained in the biosecurity treatment system & enriched their knowledge & subject expertise. The training was organized at NIPHM, Hyderabad which is an autonomous organization functioning under Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare, Government of India with a mandate of strengthening Plant Health Management and biosecurity in the country through capacity building, teaching and research.


    This training was conducted under the Australian Government’s Partnerships for Development (GPFD) program. GPFD is an initiative of the Australian Government Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade that supports partnerships between Australian public and other countries’ public sector organisations to promote sustained economic growth and poverty reduction by improving the effectiveness of governments in the Indian Ocean, Asia and Pacific regions. This program, in particular, focuses on promoting increased trade in agricultural commodities by improving biosecurity treatment methods that may be required by importing countries. It promotes capacity building, by supporting the Indian Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers’ Welfare, Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage Directorate to sustainably improve biosecurity management systems, through training on practices and techniques for the safe and effective application of biosecurity treatments. It also promotes a consistent approach towards biosecurity/pest risk management across the region. Similar training is carried out in Sri Lanka, Vietnam Cambodia, and Fiji. Indonesia, Laos, Myanmar, Papua New Guinea, and the Philippines. This will reduce the risk of spread of pests and diseases in cargo to support agricultural trade in all partner countries, including India and Australia.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499085) Visitor Counter : 5