      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Sikkim is doing a Commendable Job in combating COVID-19 : L.R Vishwanath
      
      Webinar on “Effective COVID Management in Sikkim-An exemplary effort” organised by PIB, Guwahati

      Posted On: 02 JUL 2020 3:59PM by PIB Guwahati

    Sikkim is doing a commendable job in combating COVID-19, said Shri L. R. Vishwanath, Head of Department, Directorate General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He was addressing a webinar highlighting the good practices on COVID management done by states like Sikkim, so that the other states may implement such strategies to fight against the pandemic. The Webinar was organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today on the topic “Effective COVID Management in Sikkim-an exemplary effort”.


    Shri L.R. Vishwanath, HoD, PIB Guwahati


    Talking about the effectiveness of Webinars during such crisis situation, Shri Vishwanath said that it is a very good communication strategy environment where the key people like policy decision makers, people who develop communication strategy and people who implement policies as well as the journalists come together and discuss various issues related to the current crisis situation which helps further to disseminate those to the common people. He also informed that PIB is organizing a series of webinars on COVID-19 to sensitize the journalists that how effectively the North Eastern states are managing the crisis situation.


    Shri Sunny Kharel, Under Secretary, Coordination (COVID-19), Government of Sikkim


    During this COVID-19 pandemic all necessary precautionary measures were taken by the Sikkim Government from the very beginning which helped the state to handle the crisis situation effectively to large extent, said Shri Sunny Kharel, Under Secretary, Coordination (COVID-19), Government of Sikkim, while delivering his keynote address in the webinar. He spoke extensively on the strategies taken by the Sikkim Government to control the spread of the COVID-19. He informed that more than 6 lakh 50 thousand screenings have been done so far in the state. As a preventive measure, Sikkim Government also stopped the entry of tourists to the state in the very beginning which helped a lot in the fight against the pandemic.


    Dr. C. Lalmuansangkimi, Assistant professor, Indian Institue of Mass Communication, Aizawl


    Dr. C. Lalmuansangkimi, Assistant professor, Indian Institue of Mass Communication enlightened the participants about the Communication Strategy for effective COVID Management.


    Shri Puran Tamang, Editor, Summit Times


    Shri Joseph Lepcha, President of Press Club of Sikkim


    Shri Kishore Moktan, Editor, Dainik Mirmirey, Nepali Daily


    Shri Puran Tamang, Editor, Summit Times, Shri Joseph Lepcha, President of Press Club of Sikkim and Shri Kishore Moktan, Editor, Dainik Mirmirey, Nepali Daily were also the key speakers in the webinar who spoke about “Utilization of Social media in spreading awareness on Covid-19 in Sikkim”, “Proper management of returnees help in controlling the spread of Covid-19 in Sikkim” and " Farmers support in managing supply chain during the lockdown period" respectively.


    Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati delivered the welcome speech and Shri Gopajit Das, Media & Communication Officer, PIB, Shillong moderated the Webinar.


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1635906) Visitor Counter : 62
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese