      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Webinar on Fake News vs Genuine News by PIB, Guwahati
      
      Youth must be well aware of right information as they are the Torch bearers of the society: L. R. Vishwanath

      Posted On: 06 JUL 2020 6:14PM by PIB Guwahati

    " Youth are the torch bearer s of our society. So, they must be well aware and forward the right form of information to curb the spread of fake news ", said Shri L. R. Vishwanath, Head of Department, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting while addressing the Webinar organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati in coll a boration with Cotton University and IIMC, Aizawl today.


    Shri L.R. Vishwanath, HoD, NE Zone


    Talking about the flow of fake news Shri Vishwanath said that in both print and electronic media there is a gateway to check the flow of information but in social media the spread of information is fast. So they must be well aware while spreading any information on social media platform.


    Dr. C. Lalmuansangkimi, Assistant Professor, IIMC, Aizawl


    Media personnel must have the sense of responsibility while preparing news , said Dr. C. Lalmuansangkimi, Assistant Professor, IIMC, Aizawl while addressing the webinar. She further added that as a student of mass communication before sharing any information they must verif y the information.


    Dr. Sayanika Dutta, Assistant Professor, Cotton University


    Dr. Sayanika Dutta, Assistant Professor, Cotton University spoke extensively on how students should deal with fake news in times of COVID-19 crisis. She asserted that nowa days users of digital media are victims of fake news. She advised the students to always check the source of information before sharing any news.


    Shri Muktikam Hazarika, Assistant Professor, Cotton University


    Shri Muktikam Hazarika, Assistant Professor, Cotton University said that everybody should check the authenticity of the news as well as the website before sharing if further because fake news is detrimental to our society. Further, he added that in order to curb the mence of fake news, genuine intention and efforts of everyone, particularly youth members and students are required. Also, he underlines that awareness an sensitisation among those who are more vuknerable to becoming victims of fake news should be carried out as a service to society by everyone at their own individual level.


    The Webinar titled “Fake News vs. Genuine News” was participated by the faculty members and students of Cotton University, Indian Institute of Mass Communication Aizawl and Kendriya Vidyalaya, Noonmati.


    In her welcome address Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB, Guwahati said that this Webinar will definitely be a knowledge enhancer for the students as it will give the knowledge of how to deal with fake news.


    The Question and answer session post the presentations in the Webinar proved to be fruitful in answering the queries of the students.


    **************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1636839) Visitor Counter : 29