      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Webinar on Disaster Management and Crisis Communication to be organized by PIB, Guwahati
      
      Lt Gen (retd) Syed Ata Hasnain, Member, NDMA to be the Chief Guest
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2020 2:58PM by PIB Guwahati


    Assam is walking on a double edged sword at the moment. It is experiencing not just the wrath of corona virus but also the nature's fury in the form of the floods which has now affected lakhs of people across the state.
    In these times of crisis, the role of the government gains far more significance much beyond providing relief to the affected people. These are times when communication with the people becomes imperative. Beyond the publicity of the relief measures, camps being organized etc, it is pertinent to communicate with the people to prevent a panic situation. Often such communication borders on the lines of educating the masses about the precautions one should adhere to in order to avoid spread of virus (in this case of corona) or diseases like diarrhea, dysentery etc. which become common in flood situations.


    
    It is with this perspective that Press Information Bureau under the aegis of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India is organizing a Webinar on Disaster Management and Crisis Communication. PIB with the mandate of dissemination of information and fighting any kind of fake or misleading news will be scheduling this Webinar tomorrow between 12:30 pm to 2 pm. Lt Gen (retd) Syed Ata Hasnain has consented to be the Chief Guest at the Webinar and would be gracing the discussion by imparting the inaugural address. He is Member, National Disaster Management Agency and has 40 years of illustrious career in the armed forces wherein he also served as General Officer Commanding 15 Corps (Srinagar). He is also Chancellor of the Central University of Kashmir.


    
    The Webinar will see participation of the Head of Department, Department of Mass Communication, Tezpur University, Smt. Joya Chakraborty who would take a session on 'How to communicate and reach out to the people during the time of crisis specially natural disaster'. Tezpur University is one of the reputed Universities in the field of journalism and hence the endeavour to bring in the academic perspective through the faculty of journalism. Dr. C. Lalmuansangkimi, Assistant Professor, Indian Institute of Mass Communication, Aizawl will be connecting from Mizoram on the subject, 'Effective Communication Strategy during the time of Crisis'. Ms. Meghna Choudhury, Information Officer in the Government of Assam will be delivering lecture on 'Role of Government Information System during the time of Crisis'.


    
    The Webinar will include amongst its participants District Information and Public Relations Officers from 25 districts of Assam, students of IIMC Aizawl and Tezpur University, Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau officials from the 8 northeastern states of India.


    
    **************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1637190) Visitor Counter : 28