      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Communication is the Backbone of any Disaster Relief Effort: Lt. Gen (Retd) Syed Ata Hasnain
      
      PIB is always there to cater to the requirement of the State: L. R. Vishwanath
      
      Webinar on Disaster Management and Crisis Communication organized by PIB, Guwahati
      Posted On: 09 JUL 2020 5:40PM by PIB Guwahati


    Unless there is an effective form of communication, it is not possible to create resilience in the community. Communication is important to convey timely warning to the people, to be able to alleviate the suffering in a disaster, said Lt Gen (Retd) Syed Ata Hasnain, Member, National Disaster Management Agency, in a Webinar organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today. The topic of the Webinar was “Disaster Management and Crisis Communication”. Gracing the Webinar as the Chief Guest, Lt Gen (retd) Hasnain while delivering his inaugural address said that an effective form of communication is required during time of Crisis. Government must be well prepared to give advance warning of any disaster so that its impact can be minimized, he said.


    Giving emphasis on the need for rapid communication in times of disaster, Lt Gen (retd) Hasnain further added that Communication is known as the backbone of any response or relief effort. He also highlighted the measures to be taken for disaster risk reduction.


    Lt Gen (retd) Hasnain appreciated the effort of Press Information Bureau, Guwahati for organizing the webinar on such an important topic which is particularly significant in these times.


    Press Information Bureau is always there to cater to the requirement of the State Government, said Shri L.R. Vishwanath, Head of Department, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting while giving his opening remarks at the Webinar. PIB works to bring in absolute backward and forward linkages between the State and Central Government and always tries to bridge the gaps in the narrative of the government work in Centre and States.


    Shri Vishwanath further added that during the time of disaster the people who are most affected usually go unnoticed though it is not intentional. So, there is a need for social audit to see whether those people are receiving the benefits of the welfare schemes of the Government. Assam Government has put up SOPs for social audit of flood relief which is a good transparent decision, he said.


    Smt. Joya Chakravarty, Head of Department, Department of Mass Communication, Tezpur University took a session on “How to Communicate and reach out to the people during the time of crisis”. She spoke extensively on effective crisis management and said effective communication and coordination are important for controlling disaster.


    Dr. C. Lalmuansangkimi, Assistant Professor, Indian Institute of Mass Communication, Aizawl spoke on “Effective Communication strategy during the crisis times”. She spoke about crisis preparedness and tools for effective communication.


    Smt. Meghna Choudhury, Information Officer, Government of Assam spoke on “Role of Government Information System during the crisis situations”. She informed how the Assam government is dealing with the current crisis situation owing to the floods.


    The Webinar was summed up by Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati. Smt. Sucharita Sahoo, Field Publicity Officer, Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati moderated today’s webinar.


    The Webinar had participation from District Information and Public Relations Officers from 25 districts of Assam, students of IIMC Aizawl and Tezpur University and also Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau officials from the 8 northeastern states of India totaling around 60.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1637571) Visitor Counter : 21
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese