      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Community radio can play a pivotal role in bringing behavioural change in public: L R Vishwanath
      
      Community radio is the strongest medium to disseminate information: Bhaskar Jyoti Bhuyan
      
      PIB, Guwahati organized a Webinar on Behavioral Change in Public during COVID-19
      Posted On: 07 JUL 2020 7:50PM by PIB Guwahati


    Community radio can play a pivotal role in bringing behavioral change in public, said Shri L.R. Viswanath, Head of Department, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He was addressing a webinar organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati in collaboration with Brahmaputra Community Radio Station, Dibrugarh today. The topic of the Webinar was “Behavioral change in public during COVID-19”.


    Shri Vishwanath also said that community radio must share COVID-19 awareness among the masses. It can play a major role in bringing behavioral change like maintaing social distancing, wearing mask and sanitizing hands.


    Shri Vishwanath further added that electronic media, particularly television channels and social media are being extensively used for effective communication for dissemination of best practices of COVID management. But the target audience covered under these platforms is not enough. Therefore the use of Community Radio in this direction is both need of the hour and imperative, he said. Community radio covers a particular community and segment which in turn covers the local issues and is even successful in the dark areas where the other platforms of communication cannot reach, Vishwanath said.


    Dr. Dhrubajyoti Bhuyan, Assistant Professor, Dept. Of Psychiatry, Assam Medical College Hospital, Dibrugarh spoke extensively on Mental Health during COVID- 19. He said that maintaining calm and positive approach is essential during this crisis time.


    Dr.Ankuran Dutta, Head of the Department of Communication & Journalism, Gauhati University talked about the role of Community radio on Behavioral change during COVID-19. He said that strategic communications through Community radio can bring positive behavioral changes among the people.


    Dr Alankar Kaushik, English and Foreign Language University, Shillong spoke on the use of language in media during COVID-19 and the significant role it plays in disseminating information. One should be very careful of the language being used while spreading the messages on COVID-19. He said that use of sensational language should strictly be avoided as it may create panic among public and hence defeat the entire objective.


    Ms. Gitali Kakati, State Social and Behavioral Change Communication Consultant, UNICEF talked about Risk Communication & Community engagement. She said that during this crisis time emphasis should be on positive news, how many people have recovered must be highlighted. Shri Bhaskar Jyoti Bhuyan, Station Head Brahmaputra Community Radio Station, Dibrugarh said that Community Radio is a very strong medium to disseminate information in the region as it is popular among the people.


    Smt Hiramani Das, Field Publicity Officer, Regional Outreach Bureau delivered the welcome address and Smt Smita Saikia, Media and Communication Officer, Press Information Bureau delivered the closing remarks in today’s Webinar. Smt. Barnali Mahanta, Information Assistant, PIB moderated the Webinar.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1637048) Visitor Counter : 25
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese