      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Interactive Session with Students of Mass Communication of North East Hill University Organised by PIB, Guwahati
      
      Information is the Power to Existence: L. R. Vishwanath

      Posted On: 15 JUL 2020 4:15PM by PIB Guwahati

    Press Information Bureau, Guwahati organised an Interactive Session on “Information Technology and Communication-mutual sustenance in Government working” with the students of department of Journalism and Mass Communication of North East Hill University, Shillong today.


    The main objective of the Interactive Session was to make the students aware and enhance their knowledge about how the IT revolution and digital advances in communication can facilitate government functioning.


    The Interactive Session with the students was held by Shri. L. R Vishwanath, Head of Department, Directorate General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Saying that the information is the power to existence Shri Vishwanath highlighted how the vast advantages in Information Technology have been proving to be a boon to communication. “Dynamic information, when calibrated with latest technology, becomes information technology”, he said. Giving reference to the Government activities Shri Vishwanath said that the IT revolution and Digital advances in communication, if used and explained in optimum tandem, can facilitate government functioning as never before. He informed that there is already a proposal by the Government of India to switch over to e-Governance via e-office and Government e-marketplace in a substantial manner to make government offices paperless. He also explained how Press Information Bureau and Bureau of Outreach Communication are working specially in such crisis situation to disseminate proper information to the masses using Information technology.


    Shri. L. R Vishwanath made a presentation on “Information Technology and Communication-mutual sustenance in Government working” followed by Question and answer session. Around 25 participants attended the interactive session today. Students of North East Hill University actively took part in the question and answer session.


    Kamaljit Chirom, Assistant Professor, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, North East Hill University expressed his gratitude to Press Information Bureau, Guwahati and also to Shri LR. Vishwanath, for holding such interactive session for the benefit of the students.


    The Welcome address for today’s session was delivered by Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati. Smt Smita Saikia moderated today’s session.


    Press Information Bureau, Guwahati is holding a series of such interactive sessions with the students of Mass Communication of different Universities and institutes across North East with a motive to highlight how Government Information System works.


    *******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638751) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese