      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB, Guwahati Holds Interactive Session with Students of Rajiv Gandhi University, Arunachal Pradesh
      Effective Crisis Communication is the backbone of efficient Crisis Management : L. R. Vishwanath

      Posted On: 17 JUL 2020 2:37PM by PIB Guwahati

    “ Effective Crisis Communication is the backbone of efficient Crisis Management”, said Shri LR Vishwanath, Head of Department, Directorate General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He was holding an interactive session organised by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today. The Interactive Session titled “Crisis Communication, Crisis Management and Delivery in Government Working” was with the students and faculties of Rajiv Gandhi University, Arunachal Pradesh.


    The main objective of the Interactive Session was to make the students aware and enhance their knowledge about how government information system works in disseminating information during crisis situation.


    Speaking on Crisis Communication, Shri Vishwanath said that communication during crisis is very challenging as the question arises what to communicate and in what order to communicate. He also said during crisis time, there is always time constraint so the narrative of communication and the recipients have to be well prioritized.


    Shri Vishwanath made a presentation on Crisis Communication, Crisis Management and Delivery in Government Working followed by Question and answer session. Around 30 participants were present in the interactive session.


    Dr. Khaba Kabi, Professor, HoD, Department of Mass Communication, Rajiv Gandhi University, Arunachal Pradesh expressed his gratitude to Press Information Bureau, Guwahati and also to Shri LR. Vishwanath, for holding such interactive sessions for the benefit of the students.


    The Welcome address for today’s session was delivered by Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati and the session was moderated by Smt. Hiramani Das, Field Exhibition Officer, Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1639308) Visitor Counter : 13
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese