      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      All Health Workers striving tirelessly to tackle COVID19 in Assam: Dr. Ratna Kanta Talukdar
      
      Doctors are the real warriors who are fighting from the front: L. R. Vishwanath
      
      PIB, Guwahati Holds Round table to Discuss Effective COVID-19 Management in Assam
      Posted On: 20 JUL 2020 5:42PM by PIB Guwahati


    Focusing on the rising recovery rate in aiding continuous decline in active cases, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today organized an online Round table discussion on COVID-19 management in Assam. The participants of this Round Table included Dr. Ratna Kanta Talukdar and Dr. Syed Tanwir Alam, medical professionals who have been awarded by Indian Medical Association (IMA) for effective COVID management in the state of Assam. Dr. Manoj Choudhury, Executive Director of National Health Mission, Assam also shared his views and deliberated upon the COVID scenario in Assam.


    Taking part in the Round Table today, Dr. Manoj Choudhury, Executive Director, National Health Mission, Assam spoke about the steps taken by National Health Mission to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. He said that initially Assam did not have much COVID cases but as time passed cases have increased. The only way to control the situation was to do testing, tracing, and isolating the infected person. Earlier, giving test reports on time was a challenge for the State as there were no enough testing labs. But today, there are more labs functioning in the state and some more labs to start functioning soon, he said.


    Speaking about COVID-19 management in Assam Dr. Ratna Kanta Talukdar, Head of Department, O&G, Guwahati Medical College Hospital said that all the health workers starting from the grassroot working tirelessly to tackle the COVID19 pandemic in the State. Saying that Assam is one step ahead of COVID so far, Dr. Talukdar said that Assam Government is ensuring all required testing and quarantine facilities for the people. He also said that all necessary drugs are available in the State. Plasma therapy is also available in Guwahati Medical College Hospital and the collection of plasma is also under process. Dr. Talukdar requested everyone to take all the necessary precautions which can help to tackle the spreading of COVID 19.


    Dr. Syed Tanwir Alam highlighted the COVID-19 scenario in the State and said that each and every COVID warrior working day and night from the front. Saying that Assam is way ahead in fighting against the pandemic, Dr. Tanwir said that the recovery rate in the State is very high because best possible treatment is being given to the COVID infected people. Rapid testing that has been started in the State is helping people to get the result in less than half an hour, he said. Talking about the initiatives of the Government of Assam Dr. Tanwir said that all medical colleges have been provided enough infrastructures and other support by the government.


    Shri L. R. Vishwanath, Head of North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in his opening remarks said that doctors are playing a vital role in bravely fighting the pandemic. They are the real warriors who are fighting from the front against the pandemic and ensuring safety to the people, he said.


    Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB, Guwahati delivered the welcome address and Smt Smita Saikia moderated the Round Table.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1639948) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese