      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Interactive Session with Students of School of Culture & Media, Assam Rajiv Gandhi University Organised by PIB, Guwahati
      
      Government Outreach has to be realistic and should have widespread cover: L. R. Vishwanath

      Posted On: 16 JUL 2020 6:27PM by PIB Guwahati

    “Government Outreach has to be realistic, easy to implement and should have widespread coverage to reach out to the people”, said Shri LR Vishwanath, Head of Department, Directorate General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He was holding an interactive session organised by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today. The Interactive Session titled “Information, Communication & Outreach- The Lifeline of Government Delivery”was with the students and faculties of Assam Rajiv Gandhi University, Sivasagar.


    The main objective of the Interactive Session was to make the students aware and enhance their knowledge about how government information system works in disseminating information and reaching out to the common masses through its outreach programmes.


    Speaking on government outreach activities Shri Vishwanath said that efficient delivery cannot sustain in the absence of extensive reach to the target.Giving emphasis on publicity in local content he said that information must be packaged in local content so that it can have wider impact on the target masses . He also said the content of communication should be specific to geographic areas, language, ethnicity and culture of the target beneficiaries.


    Shri Vishwanath made a presentation on Information, Communication & Outreach- The Lifeline of Government Delivery followed by Question and answer session. Around 20 participants were present in the interactive session. Students and faculty of Assam Rajiv Gandhi University actively took part in the question and answer session.


    Smt. Amrita Devi, Assistant Professor of School of Culture & Media, Assam Rajiv Gandhi University of cooperative Management, Sivasagar expressed her gratitude to Press Information Bureau, Guwahati and also to Shri LR. Vishwanath, for holding such interactive session for the benefit of the students.


    The Welcome address for today’s session was delivered by Smt.Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director and the session was moderated by Smt. BarnaliMahanta, Information Assistant, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1639114) Visitor Counter : 12
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese