      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB, Guwahati Holds Interactive Session with Students of Dibrugarh University
      
      Feedback and monitoring are the two essential pillars In government functioning: L. R. Vishwanath

      Posted On: 24 JUL 2020 4:45PM by PIB Guwahati

    “ In government functioning, feedback and monitoring are the two essential pillars for mid-course corrections during implementation”, said Shri L. R Vishwanath, Head of Department, Directorate General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He was holding an interactive session organised by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today. The Interactive Session titled “Feedback monitoring in digital communication and Government functioning” was with the students and faculties of the department of Centre for Studies in Journalism and Mass Communication of Dibrugarh University, Assam.


    The main objective of the Interactive Session was to make the students aware and enhance their knowledge about how government information system works in disseminating information using different means of communication.


    Speaking on feedback monitoring, Shri Vishwanath said that feedback and monitoring are the two crucial pillars for ensuring the success of any programme. A properly developed feedback becomes the backbone for efficient monitoring, he said. Talking about efficient monitoring Shri Vishwanath said that it involves transparency at the decision making level, implementation level and feedback level. A strong and effective feedback and monitoring system reflect the intent and integrity of the implementers of any government programme, he added.


    Shri Vishwanath made a presentation on Feedback monitoring in digital communication and Government functioning followed by Question and answer session. Around 50 participants were present in the interactive session. Students and faculty of Dibrugarh University actively took part in the question and answer session.


    Dr. Satyakam Borthakur, Professor, Chairman, Centre for Studies in Journalism and Mass Communication, Dibrugarh University gave a brief overview of the department in his speech. He expressed his gratitude to Press Information Bureau, Guwahati and also to Shri LR. Vishwanath, for holding such interactive session for the benefit of the students. Such initiative will very much help the students to get idea and knowledge about various aspects of government functioning, he said.


    The Welcome address for today’s session was delivered by Smt. Hiramani Das, Field Exhibition Officer, Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati and the session was moderated by Smt. Barnali Mahanta, Information assistant, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1640921) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese