      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Forest Department is working in full spirit to protect the wildlife in Kaziranga: Shri Parimal Suklabaidya
      
      PIB, Guwahati organized a Webinar on “Rescue Operation of Wildlife in Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve during floods”

      Posted On: 22 JUL 2020 6:19PM by PIB Guwahati

    As Assam is dealing with the floods so is Kaziranga, the state forest department is working in full spirit in order to protect the wildlife in the National Park, said Shri Parimal Suklabaidya, Minister of Environment and Forest, Government of Assam while speaking in a Webinar organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today. The minister was talking about how Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve is battling floods and also about Government’s initiatives in this regard. The topic of the webinar was “Rescue Operation of Wildlife in Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve during floods”.


    In order to tackle the rise in water level and to protect the wildlife we have tried to put together rescue teams and boats well in advance, the minister said. 33 new highlands that have been constructed last year in addition to existing highlands have helped the wild lives to take shelter during this crucial time of the flood, he added. The minister further said that every year Kaziranga National Park faces flood and this year it is the third phase of flood in Assam that is hitting the National Park. The forest department is facing double whammy of protecting the animals in Kaziranga every year, one from poachers and other natural calamities. The forest department and the government are giving all efforts to protect the animals from all adversaries. This year 1 case of poaching has been reported so far, the minister informed.


    Referring to the concerted efforts of the forest department using advanced equipment, the minister said that the department is getting full support from the state and central government. He expressed his gratitude towards Shri Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister of Environment and Forest for providing full support and having concern about the flood situation of Kaziranga.


    Shri L.R Vishwanath, Head of North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in his welcome address said that Kaziranga holds a special attraction to the world for its flora and fauna. But the National Park is also prone to the risk of heavy rains and floods every year. He said that Press Information Bureau has a unique role in bringing people together and informing and making them aware about all current issues. With this motive Press information Bureau is holding this webinar on the present situation of Kaziranga, he said. Shri Vishwanath expressed his gratitude towards the State Forest Minister Shri Parimal Suklabaidya for taking out time to participate in the Webinar.


    Shri Ramesh Gogoi, DFO, Kaziranga National Park gave an overview of the flood in Kaziranga. He highlighted the various measures taken by the forest department to rescue the animals in the National Park. He informed that the forest department is getting adequate support not only from the Government but also from many National and International NGOs and local people.


    Shri Himanshu Shekhar, Editor, NDTV India spoke about the importance of SDG number 15 for Kaziranga Sanctuary and Assam. Calling wildlife crime as the cause of concern he suggested that states should have institutional mechanisms to address the challenges that the wildlife is facing.


    Dr. Bibhab Kumar Talukdar, CEO, Aaranyak, NGO spoke about the importance of Karbi Anglong for Kaziranga National Park during the flood as Natural Island. He said emphasis on the conservation of Kaziranga facing hills of Karbi Anglong is equally important as, during the flood, animals from the park migrates to the foothills of Karbi Anglong. He requested the government to control any developmental activities at Karbi Anglong foothills nearby Kaziranga.


    Shri Uttam Saikia, Honorary Wildlife Warden spoke on Community awareness on wildlife rescue. He spoke about the awareness programmes in the nearby villages which are conducted on a regular basis for saving and rescuing the animals.


    Dr. Rathin Barman, Joint Director, Wildlife Trust of India spoke on wildlife rescue situations due to flood in Kaziranga and said that support they are getting from the community in the rescue operation is enormous. Referring to other parts of the country where crowd management pose the biggest problem in any rescue activity, Dr Barman said that the situation in KNPTR is very contrary and the cooperation of the community across the KNPTR has been helping the Forest staff in all rescue operation.


    Dr. Varun Goswami, Senior scientist, Conservation initiative, NGO spoke on Planning for wildlife movement and conservation around Kaziranga National Park.


    Shri Rabindra Sarma, Research Officer, Kaziranga National Park spoke on flood and corridor management and said that during floods the animals, in addition to the Karbi Anglong foothills, also move to the nearby tea garden areas for shelter. Referring to the movement of animals to the nearby tea garden areas, Shri Sarma said that the people of the nearby tea gardens should be oriented more for providing the necessary support to the staff of the Forest Department for the protection of the wild animals.


    Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB, Guwahati delivered the closing remarks and Shri Gopajit Das, Media and Communication Officer, Press Information Bureau moderated today’s webinar.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1640447) Visitor Counter : 16