      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB, Guwahati Holds Interactive Session with Mass Communication Students of Manipur University
      
      Participative interaction is vital for online learning: L. R. Vishwanath

      Posted On: 22 JUL 2020 4:26PM by PIB Guwahati

    “Participative interaction is vital for online learning as one-way lecture without physical presence could render the process absolutely monotonous”, said Shri LR Vishwanath, Head of Department, Directorate General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He was holding an interactive session organised by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today. The Interactive Session titled “Communication in Online Learning, the macro perspective” was with the students of Mass Communication of Manipur University.


    Speaking on online learning, Shri Vishwanath said that macro platforms such as webinars and Google meets must be used for online learning so that students can join classes through a common link without much technological hitch. He also said that a foolproof evaluation and feedback mechanism needs to be developed to assess the efficiency of online learning.


    Shri Vishwanath made a presentation on Communication in Online Learning, the macro perspective followed by Question and answer session. Around 20 participants were present in the interactive session.


    Dr. Ganesh Sethi, HoD, Department of Mass Communication, Manipur University appreciated the efforts of Press Information Bureau, Guwahati for organising such interactive sessions with the students. He expressed his gratitude to Shri LR. Vishwanath, for holding the interactive session for the benefit of the students.


    The Welcome address for today’s session was delivered by Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati, and the session was moderated by Smt. W. Panthoibi Singh, Field Publicity Officer, Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1640414) Visitor Counter : 4