      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat programme portrays a rich canvas of Rajasthan and Assam in the right perspective: L. R. Vishwanath
      
      PIB, Guwahati organized a Webinar on “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat”

      Posted On: 28 JUL 2020 8:16PM by PIB Guwahati

    Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat is a flagship scheme of the Government of India which seeks to reiterate the concept of unity in diversity. Under this theme, Rajasthan has been paired with Assam. Emphasizing on the links between the two states in the field of culture, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today organized a webinar on “Ek Bharat Shreshtha bharat”. Many esteemed speakers spoke about the cultural and economic links between the two states.


    Shri L.R Vishwanath, Head of North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting spoke on the topic “Cultural symbiosis between Rajasthan and Assam under Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat”. He said that the cultural symbiosis is present in the melody, rhythm, religion, literature and cultures of both the states. There vibrant colours and rich architectural background are just one of the common element between the two states, he said. He also said that the Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat programme portrays a rich canvas of both the states in the right perspective. He informed the participants that Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati have organized various programmes under Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat where colorful folk culture and food of Rajasthan were depicted.


    Smt. Pragya Paliwal Gaur, ADG, PIB Rajasthan spoke on the idea and concept of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat. She said that India is a unique nation with a rich history of culture. We need to nourish and cherish the Culture for the future as it holds unity in diversity, she added.


    Shri Ravi Shankar Ravi, Writer and Editor, Dainik Purbodaya spoke on contribution of Rajasthani culture to the Northeastern states. Citing that culture connects the society, Shri Ravi said that Assam and Rajasthan both are full of colourful culture and heritage. He appreciated the effort of Press Information Bureau for holding the webinar on such topic which unites two states.


    Prof. Parasmani Dutta, HoD, Department of Cultural Studies, Tezpur University deliberated on Assam-Rajasthan Cultural linkages and shared his experience on the link between the two states.


    Shri Ashok Ji Sethia, Entrepreneur from Assam spoke on emerging entrepreneurs of Rajasthani origin and entrepreneurship in Assam. He said that to do any business in any state, the support of local community and local administration is of utmost importance. Rajasthani and Assamese community together are helping to boost the industries in the state, he said. He also added that the Rajasthani community is helping to enhance various sectors of Assam including economy, culture, education and journalism.


    Dr. Swati Agarwal, Kathak Dancer from Rajasthan spoke extensively on Rajasthani culture with special emphasis on Rajsthani folk dance and paintings.


    Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB, Guwahati delivered the welcome address and Sucharita Sahoo, Media and Communication Officer, Press Information Bureau moderated today’s webinar.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1641893) Visitor Counter : 18
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese