      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB, Guwahati Holds Interactive Session with Students of Assam Women's University
      Leaders lead from the front not by default: L. R. Vishwanath

      Posted On: 29 JUL 2020 3:36PM by PIB Guwahati

    Leaders lead from the front and are always ready to take over immediately after getting a call in any situation, said Shri L.R Vishwanath, Head of Department, Directorate General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He was holding an interactive session organised by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today titled “Leading in the Digital age through Innovation & Experimentation” with the students of Assam Women's University, Jorhat.


    Asserting that leaders think faster and are always ahead of themselves and others,he said that thinking speed and determination is very important in leadership to get success. He further added that leaders always evaluate, calculate and analyse the merits and demerits of every situation and every decision they take and then come to the final decision.


    Shri Vishwanath made a presentation on Leading in the Digital age through Innovation & Experimentation. More than 100 participants were present in the interactive session.


    Ms Mohsina Rahman, Assistant Professor, School of Media & Mass Communication, Assam Women's University gave a brief overview of the Institute in her speech. She expressed her gratitude to Press Information Bureau, Guwahati and also to Shri L R. Vishwanath for holding interactive session for the benefit of the students.


    Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB Guwahati in her welcome address informed the participants that under the guidance of Shri LR Vishwanath, PIB Guwahati is holding series of interactive session with the mass communication students of various institutes and university from all over North East. The session was moderated by Smt. Hiramani Das Field Exhibition Officer, ROB Guwahati.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1642014) Visitor Counter : 14
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese