      PIB Headquarters

      Scholarship for Students pursuing Philately hobby
      Posted On: 05 DEC 2017 6:27PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Department of Posts has launched a Scholarship Scheme called "Deen Dayal SPARSH Yojana" Under the Scholarship for Promotion of Aptitude and Research in stamps as a Hobby.


    Students of class VI to IX having good academic record and pursuing philately as a hobby will be awarded scholarship on the basis of Philately Quiz & Philately Project to be conducted by circle level. The amount of Scholarship per awardee is to be Rs. 6000/ - per annum and @ Rs. 500/ - per month.


    Eligibility Condition:


    a. A Candidate must be a student (class VIth to IXth) of a recognized School within India.


    b. Concerned School should have a Philately Club and the candidate


    should be a member of the Club,


    c. In case the School Philately Club hasn't been established a student


    having his own Philately Deposit Account may also be considered.


    d. A candidate must have good academic record. At the time of selection for award of scholarship the candidate must have scored at least 60% marks or equivalent grade/ grade point in the recent final examination. There will be 5% relaxation for SC/ ST.


    Selection Process:


    The Selection Process will be consisting of two levels (Level 1- Philately Written Quiz Et Level- 2- Philately Project).


    Level 1: A Philately Written Quiz at Regional level will be conducted Level 2: Students selected at the Regional Level Written Quiz will have to submit a Philately Project for final selection.


    Syllabus:


    Philately Written Quiz will be a Multiple Choice Question (MCQ) quiz consisting of 50 (Fifty) questions from following subject: Current Affair, History, Science, Sports, Culture, Geography and Philately (local & national).


    Philately Project should not be of more than 4 to 5 pages. In the project, student may use not more than 16 stamps and not more than 500 words.


    Timeline: The notification will be issued by The Divisional heads of all Postal/RMS Divisions . The deadline for receiving the applications will be by 10th December. The level-1 Regional level Quiz competition will be conduct on 19.12.2017 at Divisional/Regional HQ


    For further details log on to: www.indiapost.gov.in


    AM ERL: 307

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511938) Visitor Counter : 3