      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President calls for value-based education system;
      
      Need for incorporating lessons on culture, traditions, history and heritage;
      
      Students must keep abreast of latest areas in IT;
      
      Inaugurates Centenary Celebrations of Patna High School
      Posted On: 04 AUG 2019 8:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has stressed the need for an integrated, value-based education system that will focus on all-round and holistic development of an individual to effectively face the challenges of the 21st century.


    Inaugurating the Centenary Celebrations of Patna High School, in Patna today, he stressed the need for incorporating lessons on Indian culture, traditions, history and heritage.


    He said the National Education Policy 2019 envisions an India-centric education system that contributes directly to transforming our nation sustainably into an equitable and vibrant knowledge society by providing high quality education to all.


    Shri Naidu urged intellectuals and others to study the Education Policy and give their suggestions.


    At the same time, Shri Naidu said the students should keep abreast of the latest areas in Information Technology like Artificial Intelligence and Internet of Things and upgrade their knowledge and skills.


    Observing that education makes a man civilized, cultured, dignified and deft, the Vice President opined that education was not only for employment and must make a person a responsible citizen who understands sufferings of others and becomes empathetic to their needs.


    Advising the students to dream high and aim high, the Vice President asked them to inculcate the qualities of discipline, hard work, righteousness, honesty and develop social awareness to achieve success and reach higher career positions in life.


    Talking about the importance of mother tongue or native Indian languages, he called for making mother tongue as a medium of instruction up to the primary school level.


    He also emphasized the need for ensuring physical fitness among youngsters.


    Congratulating Patna High School on the occasion of its centenary, he said the school had produced many eminent people in different walks of life.


    The Governor of Bihar, Shri Fagu Chauhan, the Chief Minister of Bihar, Shri Nitish Kumar, the Governor of Sikkim, Shri Ganga Prasad, the Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar, Shri Sushil Kumar Modi and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    ***


    RR/BK/MS/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1581265) Visitor Counter : 1342
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi