      Ministry of Shipping

      Sea to be The next Gateway for Tourism in The Country
      
      Shipping Minister Shri Mandaviya and Tourism Minister Shri Patel Discuss Ways to Promote Maritime Tourism

      Posted On: 01 AUG 2019 7:28PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State for Shipping (I/C) and Chemicals & Fertilizers, Shri Mansukh Mandaviya and Minister of State (I/C) for Tourism & Culture, Shri. Prahlad Singh Patel discussed the immense potential for maritime tourism in the country. In a meeting between the two Ministers held in New Delhi yesterday, the two ministers emphasised the need to promote the important tourist destinations in the coastal areas of the country through coastal tourism .


    It was decided in the meeting to set up a committee of senior officials of the two Ministries to explore the avenues for coastal tourism in the country and work out ways to promote the same. It was also decided to explore the possibilities and opportunities in the areas of Coastal Tourism, Cruise Tourism, Sea Sports, Light House Viewing Gallery. It was suggested that every coastal area can create a calendar of events for tourist engagement, with activities like beach volleyball, sand art, food festivals, dances of the fishing community, to name a few.


    The Shipping Ministry is promoting tourism in maritime states under the Sagarmala Programme. This is being done in convergence with the Ministry of Tourism and Tourism Development Departments of maritime state governments.


    These new, unexplored tourism areas will open a door to coastal communities of the maritime states where they will find many new and diverse job opportunities. In the coming years, coastal and maritime tourism will be a source for growth and job creation in the coastal states of India.


    The two Ministers also underscored the need for better coordination and synergy between their respective Ministries so that desired results can be achieved in a time bound manner.


    ****


    NP/ MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581078) Visitor Counter : 1376
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali