      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President greets people on the eve of Independence Day
      Posted On: 14 AUG 2019 5:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has greeted people on the eve of Independence Day. In a message, he said that as we celebrate the tremendous progress that our country has made in the last seven decades, let us not forget how hard-won our freedom is. Let us take a moment to salute those valiant freedom fighters whose courage and sacrifice freed our motherland from the shackles of colonial rule, he added.


    Following is the text of Vice President's message :


    "I extend my warm greetings and good wishes to the people of country on the joyous occasion of Independence Day.


    Today, as we celebrate the tremendous progress that our country has made in the last seven decades, let us not forget how hard-won our freedom is. Let us take a moment to salute those valiant freedom fighters whose courage and sacrifice freed our motherland from the shackles of colonial rule.


    Today, India is a country that is brimming with potential, surging ahead on the path to all-round development. Our democracy is more vibrant than ever before and our commitment to good governance and transparency is stronger than ever before.


    We must take steps to convert the Swaraj that the nation has achieved into Suraj and see that India of 21st Century is free of Hunger, Corruption, Discrimination, Illiteracy, Poverty, Caste Barriers and Urban-Rural Divide.


    Peoples’ participation is essential and crucial to the nation’s progress. Democracy thrives when the Government, Civil Society and citizens of the country work in unison to eliminate social evils and take collective & collaborative steps to take the nation forward.


    On this important day, I urge upon everyone to treat programs like Swachh Bharat, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, More Crop - Per Drop, Environment & Water Conservation as people’s movements and participate in large numbers.


    On this auspicious day, let us renew our pledge to uphold the country’s civilizational ideals and constitutional values and re dedicate ourselves to building an inclusive, peaceful, harmonious and progressive India."


    ***


    RR/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581987) Visitor Counter : 279
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi