      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      MNRE organises Curtain Raiser ceremony for the 3rd RE-INVEST
      
      Main event scheduled in October along with Second Assembly of International Solar Alliance

      Posted On: 08 AUG 2019 7:14PM by PIB Delhi

    Ministry of New & Renewable Energy organised Curtain Raiser ceremony for the 3rd Edition of Renewable Energy Investors' Meet and Expo (RE-INVEST 2019) which will be held from 30th October to 2nd November 2019 in India, coinciding with the Second Assembly of International Solar Alliance (ISA). Objective of the event is to attract the right investments in renewable energy (RE) and present India’s RE story to the world.


    Delivering the keynote address at the Curtain Raiser, Union Minister of State for Power and New & Renewable Energy (IC) and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship Shri RK Singh said that India holds enormous potential in renewable energy and it is an exciting place to invest in RE. “We have witnessed the emergence of an international consensus for renewable energy & RE-INVEST provides the perfect platform to take it forward,” the Minister added.


    In his opening remark, Secretary, MNRE, Shri Anand Kumar said that in 2015, India had set a target of 175 GW renewable energy capacity by 2022. We've already installed 80 GW and are set to exceed the target, he added.


    In his address, DG, ISA, Shri Upendra Tripathy emphasized the need to align fiscal, financial & industrial policies to cumulatively charge up the global energy ecosystem and bring energy access to more than one billion people who are without power in the world.


    India is among the countries with the largest production of energy from renewable sources. As of June 30, 2019, India has an installed renewable energy capacity of 80.47 GW, of which solar and wind comprises 29.55 GW and 36.37 GW respectively. Biomass and small hydro power constitute 9.81GW and 4.6GW respectively. Thus, India offers one of the largest investment opportunities in the renewable space. The Government of India allows a 100 per cent FDI under the automatic route for projects of renewable power generation and distribution.


    The 2nd Global RE-INVEST, was held from 2-5 October, 2018 and aimed at accelerating the worldwide effort to scale up renewable energy and connect the global investment community with Indian energy stakeholders. The 45 in-depth sessions featuring 220 speakers over the 3 days of the conference saw animated exchanges on various topics which brainstormed on expanding India’s RE market in the face of aggressive global competition.


    ****


    RCJ/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581578) Visitor Counter : 870
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi