      Ministry of Culture

      Lalit Kala Akademy celebrates 65th Foundation Day
      
      LKA has rendered great service in promoting modern, contemporary as well as ancient arts : Shri Prahlad Singh Patel
      
      A unique exhibition of post-cards dedicated to the Indian Armed Forces on display at the Akademi
      Posted On: 05 AUG 2019 6:23PM by PIB Delhi


    Lalit Kala Akademi celebrated its 65 th Foundation Day on Monday, August 5 th , 2019, at the Lalit Kala Art Galleries of Rabindra Bhawan, New Delhi. Shri Prahlad Singh Patel, Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of Culture & Tourism, Govt. of India, inaugurated the celebrations.


    Inaugurating the programme, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel congratulated the Akademi and said thatt his is an important moment when we can assess the journey of 64 years of LKA on how it has done in its chosen path to achieve the vision it was constituted upon. The Minister said that the Government of India and Ministry of Culture applaud the Akademi for the efforts it has put in promoting not only the modern and contemporary Indian arts but also the ancient ones . Citing arts as an exercitation, he said that It is a way to connect with the God, Meera did it by singing hymns, Tulsi did it through his writings and artists do so through creations. So, it must be realised that this practice will consist of positivity, hard work and curiosity.He firmly believed that we all must work together in order to achieve whatever aims and purposes the Akademi has for the arts. He also mentioned about the ongoing Cultural Mapping project by the Ministry of Culture.


    Marking the 150 th birth anniversary year of Mahatma Gandhi in 2019, the programme began with a musical bhajan presentation followed by the felicitation of the Chief Guest and Guests of Honour of the event with bouquet and citation, by the LKA Chairman, Dr. Uttam Pacharne. The members of Akademi’s General Council were also felicitated on this occasion.


    Guest of Honour for the ceremony and Founder, Sanskar Bharati, Padma Shri awardee Shri Baba Yogendra ji said, “ Indian arts and its cultural legacy have a glorious and centuries long history and it feels great that the LKA is trying its best to conserve and curate this legacy ”. Guest of Honour and the Member-Secretary, IGNCA, Shri Sachchidanand Joshi ji expressed his happiness on the occasion and said, “ No arts thrive until it makes itself a relevant representation of its society and people. This is a matter of utmost happiness that the undertakings by LKA are proving themselves capable of doing so ”.


    The ceremony also witnessed the gracious presence of the Chairman, National Monument Authority, Shri Tarun Vijay and Director General, NGMA, Shri Adwait Gannayak .


    A live painting demonstration by eminent artists Vasudeo Kamath and Ravindra Salve was performed. ‘ Mithila Ki Lokchitrakala ’ a book by Avdhesh Aman was also launched at the event. Artists, art critics, students and art lovers in a big number attended the programme.


    Expressing his heartfelt happiness and gratitude, LKA Chairman, Uttam Pacharne reiterated the glorious history and journey of the Akademi and congratulated the Akademi team, artists, and eminent personalities of the art fraternity. He stated that the Akademi has entered its 65 th year today and this year will be dedicated to the women artists of India. Mentioning about LKA’s forthcoming events i.e. the Triennale India, International Print Biennale etc. he said, “ LKA is trying to put these events at earliest. Apart from that, LKA is also working to put a triennale focusing solely on the tribal and folk arts of India so that it could reach to global masses. ”


    Celebrating the 65 th Foundation Day, the Akademi has organized various events including a Women-Artists Camp and an exhibition of eminent women artists’ paintings from Akademi’s permanent collection. The participating artists in the women camp include Sonal Varshneya, Gauri Vemula, Sujata Achrekar, Dr. Neeta Yogendra Pahariya and others. Eminent artist Ravinder Salve is the convener for the programme. The exhibition from LKA permanent collection exhibits famous women artists including Arpita Singh, Gogi Saroj Pal, Madhvi Parekh, Zarina Hashmi and others.


    The Akademi has also put on display a unique exhibition of post-cards dedicated to the Indian Armed Forces. The exhibition showcases over 500 painted post cards and has been curated by artist-critic Bhupendra Kumar Asthana and his NGO called Saprem Foundation.


    The exhibitions at the LKA Galleries of Rabindra Bhawan will remain open for public viewing till August 12, 2019, from 11 am to 7 pm daily .


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581296) Visitor Counter : 1384
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali