      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      WCD Minister to Felicitate States and Districts under BBBP Scheme in New Delhi
      Posted On: 06 AUG 2019 5:08PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Ministry of Women and Child Developmentis organizing a felicitation and award function for those Districts and States who have successfully implemented the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao ( BBBP)scheme in the country. The function will be held on 7 th August, 2019 in New Delhi.


    The objective of the programme is to felicitate States and Districts which are performing well in improving Sex Ratio at Birth as per Health Management Information System (HMIS) of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare data and excellent performance in awareness generation and outreach.Union Ministerof Women and Child Development, Smriti Zubin Irani will grace the occasion as chief guest and Minister of State, Debasree Chaudhuri,will be guest of honour at the event.


    The BBBP scheme launched on 22 nd January, 2015 has been implemented in phases. Currently, it is being implemented in 640 districts (as per census 2011). All 640 districts are covered through advocacy and media campaign. Moreover, out of these 640 districts, 405 districts are covered under Multi- Sectoral Intervention in which 100% Centrally Sponsored Schemes grant is provided directly to DM/DC for BBBP.


    On this occasion,Union Minister of WCD will be felicitating Principal Secretaries/ Commissioners of the 5 States and District Magistrates/Deputy Commissioners of 10 Districts (covering 9 States) forconsistent improvement inSex Ratio at Birth. District Magistrates/Deputy Commissioners of 10additional districts (covering 8 States)will also be felicitated for outstanding performance under awareness generation and outreach activities.


    Another important activity on the occasion will be aslide show of innovations by States/ Districts under Beti Bachao Beti Padhao followed by short videos of innovative interventions undertaken by the winning States and Districts.


    The latest reports on State/UT-wise Sex Ratio at Birth data for the period 2014-15 and 2018-19, reveal that SRB increased from 918 to 931 showing improving trends at the national level.


    ***


    MM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581369) Visitor Counter : 1794
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi