      Department of Space

      Vikram lander will land on Moon as a tribute to Vikram Sarabhai from crores of Indians: PM Shri Narendra Modi
      
      Institutions set up by Dr. Vikram Sarabhai become center of excellence today: Dr. K Sivan
      
      Dr. Vikram Sarabhai Centenary Celebration inaugurated in Ahmedabad today

      Posted On: 12 AUG 2019 4:10PM by PIB Delhi

    The centenary celebration of the birth anniversary of the founding father of ISRO - Dr. Vikram Sarabhai kicked off in Ahmedabad today in the presence of dignitaries from ISRO, Department of Space, Department of Atomic Energy and members of Sarabhai Family. Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi addressed the gathering through a video message.


    In his Video message, Shri Narendra Modi said that it will be a tribute to Dr. Sarabhai from crore of Indians in true sense when ‘Vikram’ lander will land on Moon. He also said that Vikram Sarabhai’s ideology leads India to become a powerful country in the field of science and technology. Shri Modi said Dr. Homi Bhabha’s demise had created a vacuum in the world of Indian science. At that time, Vikram Sarabhai gave a new dimension to science with his skills and leadership ability.


    Describing Dr. Vikram Sarabhai as a dedicated soldier of Science , Shri Modi said that he encouraged science as well as India's culture and Sanskrit language. He always gave time for the students. Shri Modi said that Dr. Vikram Sarabhai has left a legacy for us and it is our responsibility to take this legacy to the people. He also encouraged school children to participate in the online space quiz launched by ISRO.


    Dr. K Sivan, Chairman of ISRO, described Dr. Vikram Sarabhai as a great institution builder. He said that Vikram Sarabhai has made a huge contribution in the construction of Modern India by establishing institutions in the fields of Modern Science, Physical Research and Atomic Energy etc. He said that institutions set up by Vikram Sarabhai have become the Center of Excellence today. He said that in this sense, Dr. Vikram Sarabhai is the true Son of India.


    During the inaugural programme, an album on the life story of Dr. Vikram Sarabhai, a coffee table book on ISRO and commemorative coin from Department of Atomic Energy were released. ‘Space on Wheels’ an exhibition inside a bus was also inaugurated on the occasion.


    The yearlong Dr. Vikram Sarabhai Centenary Programme includes exhibitions, competitions to school children, journalism awards and speeches by eminent personalities. The programme will be conducted across 100 selected cities all over India commencing today and ending on August 12, 2020 with the valedictory function at Thiruvananthapuram.


    Former Director of Vikram Sarabhai Space Center Dr. B N Suresh, Former Director of Space Application Center and a close associate of Dr. Sarabhai Shri Pramod Kale, Former Chairman of ISRO Dr. Kasturirangan, Chairman of Atomic Energy Commission Shri K N Vyas, former chairman of Department of Atomic Energy Shri M R Shrinivasan and Son of Dr. Vikram Sarabhai Dr. Karthikeya Sarabhai were also present on the occasion.


    ******


    J.Khunt/PIB Ahmedabad

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581802) Visitor Counter : 1493
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati