      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister joins prayer meeting in remembrance of late Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji
      
      Sushma Ji was a multifaceted personality; have seen very closely what a great personality she was: PM
      
      Sushma Ji’s speeches were both impactful as well as inspiring: PM Modi
      
      In any ministerial duty she held, Sushma Ji brought about a marked change in the work culture there: PM
      
      One would conventionally associate the MEA with protocol but Sushma Ji went a step ahead and made MEA people-friendly: PM
      
      Sushma Ji never hesitated to speak her mind; she spoke with firmness: PM
      
      Sushma Ji could even tell the PM what to do: Shri Modi
      Posted On: 13 AUG 2019 9:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi joined a Shradhanjali Sabha, prayer meeting in remembrance of former Minister of External Affairs and one of India’s most respected leaders, Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji. He termed Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji as a leader who diligently served India and highlighted various aspects of her public life.


    All those who have worked with her are blessed to have closely interacted with Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji


    Recalling her contributions, the Prime Minister said that we are blessed to have closely interacted with Sushma Ji. He added, “Sushma Ji was a multifaceted personality and all those who have worked with her, have seen very closely what a great personality she was.”


    Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji never shied to take up a challenge


    The Prime Minster added that Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji never shied to take up a challenge. Referring about her decision to contest in Bellary Lok Sabha in 1999, the PM said, “I remember Venkaiah Naidu Ji and me going to Sushma Ji, and asking her to go to Karnataka to fight elections. The outcome was certain but she was someone who was always ready to take up challenges.”


    The PM said that Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji was a powerful orator and her speeches were both impactful as well as inspiring.


    Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji made MEA about people’s call more than protocol


    The PM further added that in any ministerial duty she held, Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji brought about a marked change in the work culture there. “One would conventionally associate the MEA with protocol but Sushma Ji went a step ahead and answered the people’s call, making the Ministry people friendly”, the PM remarked.


    Significant rise in number of passport offices during Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji’s tenure as EAM


    The PM recalled how the number of passport offices rose significantly during the tenure of Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji as the External Affairs Minister in the last five years.


    The Haryanvi touch


    Highlighting one of the lesser known aspects of Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji, the PM spoke about her Haryanvi accent. The PM said, “We are used to people saying politically correct things but Sushma Ji was different. She did not hesitate to speak her mind and she spoke with firmness. This was special about her.”


    Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji could even tell the PM what to do


    Recalling an incident when he was about to deliver his first address to the United Nations General Assembly, the PM mentioned how Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji had guided him what to do. He recollected the incident how Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji had helped him prepare his speech for the United Nations overnight.


    See traces of Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji in Bansuri: PM


    The Prime Minister said that he saw traces of Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji in Bansuri and appreciated her for her efforts.


    The Prime Minister expressed condolences to late Smt. Sushma Swaraj Ji’s husband Swaraj Kaushal Ji and daughter Bansuri.


    The list of eminent people who joined the prayer meeting included the likes of Avdheshanand Giri Maharaj, former Minister Dinesh Trivedi, MP Pinaki Misra, Minister Shri Ram Vilas Paswan, MP Satish Chandra Mishra, MP Rajiv Ranjan, MP Tiruchi Siva, MP A. Navaneethakrishnan, MP Namma Nageswara Rao, former MP Sharad Yadav, Minister Arvind Sawant, MP Prem Chand Gupta, MP Sukhbir Singh Badal, MP Anupriya Patel, MP Anand Sharma, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Dr. Krishna Gopal and Shri JP Nadda.


    *****


    VRRK/VJ/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581904) Visitor Counter : 587
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada