      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      e-Rozgar Samachar launched to spread awareness about job opportunities
      
      e-Journal expected to meet emerging challenge of young readers switching to electronic modes of communication
      
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2019 10:16AM by PIB Delhi


      The e-version of Rozgar Samachar has been launched recently by Union Minister of Information & Broadcasting Shri Prakash Javadekar. It has been launched with a view to make aspirants aware of job opportunities in government sector including public sector enterprises. It will also provide information and guidance about admission and career opportunities in various streams through career-oriented articles by experts. It is expected to meet the emerging challenge of young readers switching to electronic modes of communication.


      The journal has been priced at 75% of the cost of its print version and is available for an annual subscription fee of Rs. 400. It can be accessed by visiting the website www.employmentnews.gov.in and clicking on the e-version tab.


      Background


      Rozgar Samachar is the corresponding version of Employment News (English). Employment News is the flagship weekly job journal from Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India. It was launched in 1976 with a view to provide information on employment opportunities to the unemployed and underemployed youth of the country. The journal is published in English(Employment News), Hindi (Rozgar Samachar) and Urdu (Rozgar Samachar) and has a circulation of over one lakh copies per week. .


      The job journal provides information related to job vacancies, job oriented training programmes, admission notices related to job oriented exams and results of recruitment exams in respect of:


      (a)Ministries/Departments/Offices/Organizations/Autonomous bodies/ Societies/ PSUs of the Central Government, State Government and UT Administrations;


      (b) Nationalised banks/ RRBs /UPSC/SSC/ Constitutional and Statutory bodies;and


      (c) Central/State Governments Universities/ Colleges/Institutes recognised by the UGC/AICTE.


      In addition to this, Employment News also provides editorial content on socio-economic issues and career guidance that helps youth in broadening their horizons. The job journal serves as a guide to the youth; especially those in rural areas, by helping them gain an understanding of the job market and the plethora of employment opportunities that otherwise go unnoticed. The weekly educates the young people to make an informed decision about their careers.


      Besides fulfilling its social obligation for which the journal was started, Employment News/ Rozgar Samachar has been earning substantial profits regularly. The journal is available throughout the length and breadth of the country on every Saturday.


      ***


      AP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1581497) Visitor Counter : 1982
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Bengali , Gujarati