      Ministry of Finance

      National Housing Bank makes available Rs. 10,000 crore for Housing Finance Companies; step to further ease fund flow to housing sector
      
      FM to meet heads of Public/Private Sector Banks to review credit growth in important sectors of economy
      
      Finance Minister to meet stakeholders to finalise decisions and timelines for action on report by Expert Committee on MSME
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2019 6:06PM by PIB Delhi


    HFC Liquidity Support


    Subsequent to the Union Budget, RBI had unveiled measuresfor banks to avail additional liquidity of ₹ 1,34,000crores. Now, as announced in the Union Budget and as detailed by the Department of Economic Affairs, the backstop guarantee to banks for NBFC portfolios taken over by them has become effective. Banks will be utilising this guarantee support as per the contours of the scheme.


    To further ease flow of funds to the housing sector, the National Housing Bank (NHB) is making available from today, a liquidity infusion facility of Rs. 10,000 Cr. for Housing Finance Companies (HFCs) as additional liquidity for individual housing loans, for affordable housing. Details of the facility will be available on the NHB website later today. This facility shall be over and above the two existing refinance schemes of NHB.


    Banking


    The Finance Minister will be meeting heads of all Public Sector Banks and heads of major Private Sector Banks on Monday 5 th August, 2019, to review matters relating to growth of credit in various important sectors of the economy such as MSMEs, retail, automobiles, affordable housing, NBFCs/ HFCs and areas of priority for the banking sector in the coming months for accelerating GDP growth.


    MSME Expert Committee


    The Expert Committee on MSMEs headed by Sh. U.K. Sinha has submitted its report in June this year. The Sinha committee has made over a hundred far reaching recommendations for the MSME sector. These recommendations encompass various domains such as credit, equity funding, technology, marketing, delayed payments, institutional arrangements, need for legislative changes, rural enterprises, SHGs, risk mitigation for MSMEs, setting up of specific funds by Government etc. Taken together, the recommendations seek to enhance competitiveness of our MSMEs and their access to credit.


    Many of the actions proposed by the Committee involve inter - ministerial or inter - agency co-ordination. The Finance Minister will be holding a meeting within the next week with the concerned stakeholders including the Ministry of MSME, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Ministry of Rural Development, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Departments of Commerce, Industrial Promotion, Telecom, Revenue, Expenditure, SIDBI, NPCI amongst others, to finalise decisions and time lines for action in this regard.


    ****


    RCJ/MS/HP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581228) Visitor Counter : 536
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi