      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      CIC organized a Seminar on "Human Resource Development and Right to Information Act 2005"
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2019 3:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Information Commission organised a seminar on the topic “Human Resource Development and Right to Information Act 2005” here today. The seminar was attended by Chief Information Commissioner, Central Information Commissioners, former Information Commissioners, State Information Commissioners, NGOs and other stake-holders.


    The Chief Information Commissioner Shri Sudhir Bhargava, Shri Sudhir Bhargava in his welcome address highlighted the need for holding the seminar and suo-motu disclosure and its importance in the field of education. The Seminar was moderated by Shri Divya Prakash Sinha, Information Commissioner.


    Shri R. Subrahmanyam, Secretary, Department of Higher Education addressed the Seminar.


    The key note address was delivered by Dr. K. Kasturirangan, former Head ISRO and chairman of Committee for National Education Policy. Smt. Vanaja N Sarna, Information Commissioner, Central Information Commission, Shri N. K. Gupta, Information Commissioner, CIC and Shri Narinder Cuhan, State Information Commissioner, Himachal Pradesh, Shri Gyan Prakash Upadhyaya, Additional Chief Secretary (HRD), Government of Sikkim. Ms. Anita Karwal, Chairperson, CBSE, Shri Devendra Kumar Singh, RTI activist and Shri N Kumutha, Associate Professor, Sudharsan Engineering College addressed the Seminar.


    Ms. Anita Karwal elaborated on various developments/improvement that has taken place in the field of education consequent to implementation of RTI Act, 2005, especially disclosure of marks in competitive exams and sharing of answer sheets with students.


    Shri Devendar Kumar Singh made a presentation on the status of disclosure in remittance of fees.


    The session concluded with closing remarks by Shri Yashvardhan Kumar Sinha Information Commissioner.


    ***********


    VG/HS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1581643) Visitor Counter : 552
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali