      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      22nd National Conference on e-Governance 2019 to be held at Shillong on August 8-9, 2019
      
      Theme: “Digital India: Success to Excellence”

      Posted On: 06 AUG 2019 12:46PM by PIB Delhi

    The Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DARPG), in association with Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India and the State Government of Meghalaya will organize the 22nd National Conference on e-Governance (NCeG) 2019 on 8-9th August, 2019 at Shillong, Meghalaya.


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region and Minister of State for Prime Minister’s Office, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Department of Atomic Energy and Department of Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh will preside over the function. Shri Conard Kongal Sangma, Chief Minister of Meghalaya will be the Chief Guest of the event. The theme of this Conference is “Digital India: Success to Excellence”.


    The Conference is a part of the DARPG’s 100 days initiatives in the new Government. This is the first time the event is being organized in North-Eastern region of the country. This Conference provides a platform to disseminate knowledge on effective methods of designing and implementing sustainable e-Governance initiatives to provide end-to-end Digital Services, exchange experiences in solving problems, mitigating risks, resolving issues and planning for success.


    Discussions will be held on six sub-themes in Plenary session during the Conference: India Enterprise Architecture (INDEA), Digital Infrastructure, Inclusion and capacity building, Emerging Technology for Practitioners, Secretariat Reforms, National e-Governance Service Delivery Assessment (NeSDA). Four Breakout Sessions will be held on sub-themes - One Nation One Platform, Engaging with Innovators and Industry, End-to-End Digital Services: IT initiatives of State Governments.


    The Conference would provide considerable momentum to the e-Governance initiatives in the North Eastern region, providing opportunities for civil servants and industry captains of the region to showcase their successful interventions in e-Governance in improving end to end service delivery. 15 States would be presenting their IT initiatives and success stories in the breakout sessions.


    28 States and 8 Union Territories have confirmed their participation in the Conference and over 500 delegates are expected to attend it. An Exhibition will also be organized during the event to showcase India’s achievements in the field of e-Governance, along with a Hall of Fame/ photo exhibition on the award winners.


    Shri Hamletson Dohling, Minister of Information Technology & Communication and Urban Affairs Department, Government of Meghalaya will address the inaugural session. Senior Secretaries from the Government of India including Shri K.V. Eapen, Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances and Pensions and Shri Ajay Prakash Sawhney, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology would address the conference.


    *****


    VG/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581328) Visitor Counter : 2816
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali