      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Watan - a patriotic song by DD - released by Shri Prakash Javadekar
      
      Song free of copyright - to ensure ease of sharing on all communication platforms

      Posted On: 13 AUG 2019 12:03PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar released patriotic song “Watan” produced by Doordarshan to mark the occasion of Independence Day, 2019 in New Delhi today.


    The song pays tribute to New India. It highlights several path breaking initiatives of the government including the determination and vision behind the recent successful launch of "Chandrayaan 2". The song also pays tribute to the bravery and valour of our armed forces and the martyrs of the country.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Javadekar congratulated Doordarshan and Prasar Bharati for creating the song. He added that the song will add colour and fervour to the Independence Day celebrations this year.


    Sung by famous Bollywood singer Shri Javed Ali, penned by lyricist Shri Alok Shrivastav and musically composed by Shri Dushyant, this special song has been produced by Doordarshan, Prasar Bharati. Being broadcast by all the stations and kendras of Akashvani and Doordarshan, this song has been made free of copyright by Doordarshan and Ministry of I&B for all the FM stations, entertainment and news TV channels, social media and all other communication platforms to ensure that more and more citizens of this country can enjoy and share this song and celebrate Independence Day with this song.


    Chairman, Prasar Bharati Dr. A. Suryaprakash; CEO, Prasar Bharati Shri Shashi Shekhar Vempati; DG, Doordarshan Ms. Supriya Sahu; DG, DD News, Shri Mayank Agrawal; DG, AIR, Shri F. Sheheryar along with senior officers of Ministry of I&B and Prasar Bharati were also present on the occasion.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581814) Visitor Counter : 1837
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Malayalam