      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      22nd National Conference on e-Governance 2019 successfully concludes at Shillong
      
      ‘Shillong Declaration’on e-Governance adopted after intensive deliberations during the sessions held over two days
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2019 3:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DARPG), in association with Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India and the State Government of Meghalaya organized the 22 nd National Conference on e-Governance (NCeG) 2019 on 8-9 th August, 2019 at Shillong, Meghalaya.The theme of this Conference was “Digital India: Success to Excellence”. At the valedictory session today, ‘Shillong Declaration’ on e-Governance was adopted after intensive deliberations during the sessions held over two days. (Attached at the link below)


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region and Minister of State for Prime Minister’s Office, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Department of Atomic Energy and Department of Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh inaugurated the conference on 8 th August. Shri Conrad Kongkal Sangma, Chief Minister of Meghalaya presided over the as the Chief Guest of the event.


    Secretary, DARPG, Shri K.V. Eapen, in his address during the valedictory session, said that NCeG 2019 was one of the best and most comprehensive conferences organized till now. State Government has put the best foot forward, he noted. Further, Shri Eapen acknowleged the brilliant standard of discussions and presentations made by the participating delegates during the Conference. He expressed confidence that NCeG 2019 has provided all participating state government teams can go back with important takeaways that may be implemented in respective states.


    Chief Secretary, Government of Meghalaya, Shri P.S. Thangkhiew, complimented the enthusiasm and dedication of the organizing team and wished that all the delegates bring the learning from this conference in actual practice.


    Over the two days, discussions were held on six sub-themes in Plenary sessions - India Enterprise Architecture (INDEA), Digital Infrastructure, Inclusion and capacity building, Emerging Technology for Practitioners, Secretariat Reforms, National e-Governance Service Delivery Assessment (NeSDA). Four Breakout Sessions were held on sub-themes - One Nation One Platform, Engaging with Innovators and Industry, End-to-End Digital Services: IT initiatives of State Governments.An Exhibition was also organized during the event to showcase India’s achievements in the field of e-Governance.


    NCeG 2019 provided a platform for the delegates, including senior government officers from across the country, industry stalwarts and researchers, to share best practices, latest technology developments and leveraging them for achieving effective governance and public service delivery. The focus of all the sessions was on learning with each other’s experiences to ensure effective e-governance for citizen satisfaction and achieve Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘Minimum Government, Maximum Governance’.


    ‘Shillong Declaration’ Document


    *****


    VG/VM/DD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581657) Visitor Counter : 1557
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali