      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      Arjun Ram Meghwal Addresses 3rd International Electric Vehicle Conclave
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2019 3:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, Arjun Ram Meghwal, inaugurated the 3rd International Electric Vehicle (EV) Conclave at the International Centre for Automotive Technology (ICAT) in Manesar, Gurugram, today. The Conclave was held to create a knowledge-sharing platform to ensure flow of information at all levels in the automotive sector.


    The EV Conclave organized by ICAT in association with India Energy Storage Alliance (IESA) has grown and transformed itself into a global event since its inception in 2017. Owing tothe growth of electric mobility and in order to meet the demands of the automotive sector, the EV Conclave is organized with a focus on new trends and challenges in the field of electric mobility.


    Addressing the Conclave, Arjun Ram Meghwal,said that the Electric Mobility Mission will be implemented in phases based on feedback from the auto industry. He also promised all support to the industry on policy matters to ensure smooth and efficient transformation of the automotive industry from internal combustion (IC) to electric powertrain. He informed that 3 lakh electric vehicles have already been sold under the FAME India Scheme. He said the provision of Rs. 10,000 crore have been made for electric mobility in the Union Budget of 2019-20.


    The Conclave was attended by more than 200 delegates from more than 80 organizations. The next Conclave will be organized in July 2020.


    On this occasion, an exhibition was organized in which component manufacturers, system suppliers and service providers showcased their products and services to promote self-reliance, encourage designers and promote innovations in the electric vehicle industry in India.


    Arjun Ram Meghwal also inaugurated various new facilities including Photometry Lab for General Lighting and Power Train Engine Test Cell (ETC)- Expansion. In the expansion of the Photometry Lab for general lighting, various performance and safety testing facilities like mirror Goniometer, LED testing facilities were also inaugurated. Powertrain ETC lab expansion includes two transient and five Eddy current dynamometers-based test cells for functional validation of engines.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581646) Visitor Counter : 1782
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi