      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister to launch ‘Samagra Shiksha-Jal Suraksha’ Drive to create awareness about water conservation among all school students in the country
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2019 6:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ will launch ‘Samagra Shiksha-Jal Suraksha’ drive on Friday i.e. 9 th August 2019to create awareness about Water Conservation among all school students in the country. This mega drive will be launched at Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Auditorium, Kendriya Vidyalaya No. 2 in Delhi Cantt.


    Inspired by Prime Minister’s impetus to Jal Sanchay, Government of India has launched the Jal Shakti Abhiyan (JSA). It is a time bound campaign with a mission mode approach. This concept of water conservation is essential for students so that they can understand the importance of water and how it is shaping their lives meaningfully, thereby enabling them to participate in water conservation activities in their day to day lives.


    The Department of School Education & Literacy, MHRD has launched the ‘Samagra Shiksha-Jal Suraksha’ drive to promote water conservation activities for School Students, so that they can become competent, conscientious and committed water citizens of our nation. The department has prepared a detailed outline to implement this programme in all the schools of the country.


    Five Major Objectives:

     1. To educate students learn about conservation of water
     2. To sensitize Students about the impact of scarcity of water
     3. To empower Students to learn to protect the natural sources of water
     4. To help every Student to save at least one litre of water per day
     5. To encourage Students towards judicious use and minimum wastage of water at home and school level

    Target


    One Student - One Day - Save One Litre Water


    One Student - One Year - Save 365 Litres Water


    One Student - 10 Years - Save 3650 Litres Water


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581566) Visitor Counter : 815
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

5.