      Prime Minister's Office

      PM pays tributes to former External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj
      Posted On: 07 AUG 2019 10:59AM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi paid tributes to former External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, at her residence in New Delhi today.


    Prime Minister @narendramodi pays his tributes to former External Affairs Minister @SushmaSwaraj at her residence pic.twitter.com/zWRGI2lCOx

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) August 7, 2019

    Expressing condolence over her demise, Prime Minister said, “A glorious chapter in Indian politics comes to an end. India grieves the demise of a remarkable leader who devoted her life to public service and bettering lives of the poor. Sushma Swaraj Ji was one of her kind, who was a source of inspiration for crores of people.


    Sushma Ji was a prolific orator and outstanding Parliamentarian. She was admired and revered across party lines. She was uncompromising when it came to matters of ideology and interests of the BJP, whose growth she immensely contributed to.


    An excellent administrator, Sushma Ji set high standards in every Ministry she handled. She played a key role in bettering India’s ties with various nations. As a Minister we also saw her compassionate side, helping fellow Indians who were in distress in any part of the world.


    I can’t forget the manner in which Sushma Ji worked tirelessly as EAM in the last 5 years. Even when her health was not good, she would do everything possible to do justice to her work and remain up to date with matters of her Ministry. The spirit and commitment was unparalleled.


    Sushma Ji’s demise is a personal loss. She will be remembered fondly for everything that she’s done for India. My thoughts are with her family, supporters and admirers in this very unfortunate hour. Om Shanti”.


    Former External Affairs Minister Ms. Sushma Swaraj passed away last night in New Delhi.


    *****


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581405) Visitor Counter : 1354
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada