      President's Secretariat

      President of India in Guinea; Witnesses Signing of MoUs and Leads Delegation Level Talks; says India is Committed to Strengthen Economic ties with Guinea in Support of Guinea’s National Development Plan
      
      India Offers a line of Credit of US$170 Million for Conakry Water Supply Project

      Posted On: 02 AUG 2019 6:26PM by PIB Delhi

    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind landed in Conakry, Guinea, yesterday evening (August 1, 2019) in the final leg of his visit to – Benin, The Gambia and Guinea. He became the first Head of State/Head of Government from India to visit Guinea. On his arrival at the Conakry Airport, President Kovind was received by the President of Guinea, Prof Alpha Conde and accorded ceremonial welcome.


    Today (August 2, 2019), the President met President Conde. During the subsequent discussions with him, the President said that India is keen to upgrade and enhance its political relations with Guinea. In keeping with the importance India attaches to enhance its ties, it has opened Indian Embassy in Conakry in January this year. Subsequently, the President led delegation-level talks between the two sides.


    The President said that India is committed to strengthen economic ties with Guinea in support of Guinea’s National Development Plan. India has provided financial assistance for projects identified by Guinea in the energy, health and transportation sectors, including regional hospitals projects. India extended a new Line of Credit of US$ 170 million for Conakry Water Supply Project.


    He was happy to note that India is among the top trading partners of Guinea. He said that India’s growth and Guinea’s natural strengths complement each other. Indian companies are keen to invest in Guinea, especially in the mining, infrastructure, health and pharmaceutical sectors.


    The President said that India appreciates Guinea’s leading role in the affairs of the African Unionespecially in dealing with issues of peace, security and stability in West African nations. He stated that terrorism is one of the gravest threats to humanity today and we must work together to strengthen the global fight against this evil.


    Both sides reaffirmed their commitment to reformed multilateralism and for comprehensive reforms of the UN Security Council to make it more representative, accountable, transparent, inclusive and effective. President Alpha Conde conveyed support for India’s candidacy as non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the term 2021 – 2022.


    The two Presidents witnessed the signing and exchange of MOUs on:


    a. MoU between the Government of the Republic of Guinea and the Government of the Republic of India on cooperation in the field of traditional system of medicine and homeopathy


    b. MoU between the Government of the Republic of Guinea and the Telecommunications Consultants India Limited for Participation in the e-VBAB Network Project


    c. MoU between the Government of the Republic of Guinea and the Government of the Republic of India on cooperation in the field of renewable energy


    Later in the evening, the President will attend a banquet hosted in his honour by the President of Guinea.


    A Joint statement issued on the occasion is attached.


    *****


    VRRK/SH/BM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581187) Visitor Counter : 1444
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi