      Department of Atomic Energy

      2-day exhibition on DAE Technologies: Empowering India through Technology, inaugurated in New Delhi
      Posted On: 11 AUG 2019 11:27AM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India, is organizing a two-day exhibition on DAE spin-off technologies for non-power applications at New Moti Bagh recreation club, New Delhi. The exhibition was inaugurated by the Secretary , Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) Shri Rakesh Gupta here today. The exhibition is open to public for two days (Aug 11-12, 2019).


    The exhibition is coveringtechnologies developed by the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Raja Ramanna Centre for Advance Technology, Indore and other Units of Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), which are useful for the common man in day-to-day life e.g. in the field of health, agriculture, water, food security and environment.
    The details of the exhibits are as follows:


    Health : In health sector there are three segments i) Development of Radio Pharmaceuticals ii) Production & Distribution iii) its implementation for diagnosis and therapeutic application. The treatment of Cancer is managed by Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH), a fully autonomous aided institution of DAE, provides comprehensive treatment to cancer patients. Medical devices for Tele-ECG, Bhabhatron- A Radiation tele-therapy machine, screening of TB and Cancer are on display.


    Agriculture : DAE has developed 44 high yielding seed varieties by inducing mutationto suitlocal weather conditionsacross the country. DAEhas also developed technologies of fertilizer production frombio-sludge and encourages organic farming. The disease resistant, low maturity period and high yielding crops have been well accepted by the farmers. Rural technologies are also being made available to rural youth through ‘AKRUTI’ programme.


    Water : DAE has developed technologies for clean waterto fulfill departmental requirements and as spin-off developed many techniques which finds applications in ultra-filtration membrane, RO membrane, multistage flash evaporation and water hydrology based on radiotracers. Low cost water filters for removal of all contamination from drinking water have been displayed.


    Environment: DAE technologies are findinga lot of applications for Swatch Bharat Mission where bio-methanization& Urban Sludge Hygienization technologies are being deployed across the country. “Nisargruna” plant is a bio- Methanization plant for digesting kitchen food waste and green vegetable wastes from agriculture markets to Methane gas which can be used for cooking/generating electricity or even for running biogas vehicles. This plant can digest animal waste from slaughter house also.


    While inaugurating the exhibition, Shri Rakesh Gupta expressed his happiness that such exhibition is being organized in New Delhi. He said that these technologies are helpful in day to day life for common people. He added that Government officials act as opinion leaders, so they should visit the exhibition and understand these technologies. Shri Gupta emphasized that these technologies should be adopted in the whole country at a large scale.


    The Secretary, DAE, Dr K. N. Vyas reviewed the preparations for exhibition yesterday. The former Secretaries of DAE, Dr Anil Kakodkar, Dr M R Srinivasan were present. The former Secretary DST and member of Atomic Energy Commission, Prof. P. Rama Rao , also visited exhibits, along with CMD, NPCIL, Shri S. K. Sharma.


    ******


    VG/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581764) Visitor Counter : 1268
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi