      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh approves decisions regarding re-organisation of Army Headquarters
      Posted On: 21 AUG 2019 11:48AM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh has approved certain decisions regarding re-organisation of Army Headquarters. The approval has been given based on a detailed internal study conducted by the Army Headquarters. The decisions are as follows:

     1. A separate Vigilance Cell under COAS with Tri-Services representation - Presently, the vigilance function for the COAS is through multiple agencies and there is no single point interface. An independent vigilance cell will be made functional under COAS. Accordingly, ADG (Vigilance) will be placed directly under the COAS for this purpose. It will have three Colonel-level officers (one each from Indian Army, Indian Air Force and Indian Navy). This will be done within the existing posts at AHQ.
     2. An umbrella organisation under VCOAS for enhanced focus on human rights issues - To give high priority to observance of human rights convention and values, it has been decided to set up a special Human Rights Section headed by ADG (Major General rank officer) directly under the VCOAS. It will be the nodal point to examine any HR violation reports. To enhance transparency and ensure the best of investigative expertise is available to the section, a Police officer of SSP/SP rank will be taken on deputation.
     3. Re-location of 206 Army Officers from AHQ to Formations/Units of the Field Army - A total of 206 officers will be optimized from AHQ and these officers will be made available additionally to Formations/Units of the Field Army, as per details given below:
                                                                       
Name of Post  Major Gen.  Brigadier  Colonel  Lt. Colonel/ Major  Total
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
No. of Posts  03          08         09       186                 206  
                                                                       
                                                                       

    *********


    ABB/Nampi/Savvy/MTJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582487) Visitor Counter : 2081
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali
    
    
    

          
          
          
          
3.