      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh honours winners of 5th International Army Scout Masters Competition 2019 at Jaisalmer
      
      Indian Army wins the competition comprehensively participating for the first time

      Posted On: 16 AUG 2019 4:35PM by PIB Delhi

    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh today honoured the winners of 5 th International Army Scout Masters Competition 2019 held at Jaisalmer Military Station from August 6 – August 14, 2019 in Rajasthan.


    The Indian Army team, participating for the first time, comprehensively won competition. A total of eight teams from Armenia, Belarus, China, Kazakhstan, India, Russia, Sudan and Uzbekistan participated in the event.


    Giving away medals and trophies to the winners, Raksha Mantri congratulated them for their outstanding performances and wished a bright future for all the eight participating teams.


    Shri Rajnath Singh said in the last 10 days, all the contestants showed exceptional skills, went through stiff competition, mental and physical challenges, demonstrated remarkable determination and grit, as well as great teamwork. He hoped that the friendship developed during the competition will help in building better relations between the participating countries.


    Raksha Mantri said India shared friendly and cordial relations with the countries participating in this competition. We have had deep and strategic relations with Russia for a long time. Every year we organize a bilateral Exercise INDRA with Russia, he added.


    Shri Rajnath Singh said China annually participates in bilateral Exercise “Hand in Hand”, which helps us in developing a better understanding of each other. He said India has had historical relationships with all countries of Central Asia, such as Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, which include commercial and cultural ties.


    With regard to Sudan, Shri Rajnath Singh said India has made invaluable contribution under the United Nations Peacekeeping Force for more than a decade.


    Raksha Mantri said India looks forward to improving the relations with all the countries around the world.


    Ambassador of Uzbekistan Mr Farhod Arziev, Chief of Amy Staff General Bipin Rawat, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command, Lt Gen SK Saini and heads of delegation, participants and guests from friendly countries were present on the occasion.


    The Indian Army team trained hard for the last 10 months in extreme weather and desert conditions of Thar Desert. The team was selected and trained under the aegis of Southern Command.


    World class infrastructure was created at Jaisalmer Military Station to conduct this prestigious event. These included a challenging obstacle course for the Infantry Combat Vehicles spread over a distance of 6.7 kilometers with 15 obstacles and another tough obstacle course for the Scout Masters teams with 22 obstacles laid over a distance of 1.3 Kilometers. The smooth and efficient conduct of the event drew appreciation from all the participating teams and international panel of Judges including the co-host, Russia.


    ABB/Nampi/DK/Savvy

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582156) Visitor Counter : 272
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi