      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      Power Minister Shri RK Singh launches SARAL – ‘State Rooftop Solar Attractiveness Index’ during RPM Meeting
      
      The State of Karnataka gets first rank in the Index, Telangana second

      Posted On: 21 AUG 2019 6:44PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri RK Singh, Union Minister of State for Power and New & Renewable Energy (IC) and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, launched the State Rooftop Solar Attractiveness Index–SARAL here, today. The State of Karnataka has been placed at the first rank in the Index that evaluates Indian states based on their attractiveness for rooftop development. Telangana, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh have got 2 nd , 3 rd and 4 th rank respectively.


    Launching the Index, Shri RK Singh said that it would incentivise rooftop solar by creating healthy competition among the States. He encouraged all States to adopt the best practices being followed by top ranking States.


    SARAL has been designed collaboratively by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), Shakti Sustainable Energy Foundation (SSEF), Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) and Ernst & Young (EY). It was launched during the Review Planning and Monitoring (RPM) Meeting with States and State Power Utilities. SARAL currently captures five key aspects –


     1. robustness of policy framework

     2. implementation environment
     3. investment climate
     4. consumer experience
     5. business ecosystem

    It encourages each state to assess the initiatives taken so far, and what it can do to improve its solar rooftop ecosystem. This will help states to channelize investments that can eventually help the sector grow. In addition, such an exercise is likely to create a more conducive environment for solar rooftop installations, encourage investment and lead to accelerated growth of the sector.


    The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) has set a target of 175 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2022, of which 100 GW solar power is to be operational by March 2022, of which 40 GW is expected to come from grid connected solar rooftops. The Indian Grid Connected Rooftop PV (GRPV) segment is slowly gaining momentum with substantial interest from entrepreneurs, developers, financial institutions, development banks, end users and government entities. On a very positive note, rooftop solar PV has already achieved grid parity for commercial and industrial consumers and is fast becoming attractive for residential consumers as well.


    To achieve our rooftop solar targets, it is important to develop an ecosystem that ensures information symmetry, access to financing and clear market signals. Thus, the MNRE has developed the State Rooftop Solar Attractiveness Index–SARAL that evaluates Indian states based on their attractiveness for rooftop development. SARAL is the first of its kind index to provide a comprehensive overview of state-level measures adopted to facilitate rooftop solar deployment.


    Review, Planning & Monitoring Meeting held


    Power Minister Shri RK Singh chaired the Review Planning and Monitoring (RPM) Meeting with States and State Power Utilities. In his address to the State representatives, he emphasised the need to make Power Sector sustainable and viable so as to ensure 24/7 power supply to all consumers. The Meeting discussed various schemes and issues pertaining to the sector such as Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY), Integrated Power Distribution Scheme (IPDS), UDAY, 24/7 power supply etc.


    The Meeting was attended by the Secretary, Power, Shri Subhash Chandra Garg, Secretary, MNRE, Shri Anand Kumar, Special Secretary, Power, Shri Sanjiv Nandan Sahai, Senior officers of the Ministry of Power & MNRE, Principal Secretaries/Secretaries (Energy) of States, CMDs & MDs of Discoms and Power Sector PSUs.


    ****


    RCJ/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582543) Visitor Counter : 2482
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

5.