      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Abolition of Triple Talaq will ensure dignity and equality to crores of Muslim women: Shri Amit Shah
      
      We believe not in appeasement but in development: Shri Amit Shah

      Posted On: 18 AUG 2019 7:54PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Home Affairs Shri Amit Shah addressed an audience on "Abolition of Triple Talaq - correction of a historic wrong" at the Constitution Club of India earlier today.


    Tracing the journey of the Act, Shri Shah said that he had spoken on the issue of Triple Talaq when it was in the ordinance format and when it was a bill. He said that it was a proud moment for him to speak of the issue of Triple Talaq when it had finally been enacted by the Parliament.


    Blaming the policy of appeasement for the opposition to the removal of Triple Talaq, he said that while removal of social evils is generally welcomed by society, it was appeasement that led to some opposition to the move.


    Shri Shah asserted that social unity and holistic development are hampered because of appeasement. He said that development of an entire society takes hard work and rigorous planning, and requires dedication, commitment and empathy. Calling appeasement a "shortcut", he said that appeasement never leads to development.


    Shri Shah said that those who are left behind in the journey of development must be empowered, and that holistic, all-encompassing, last-mile development is the philosophy of the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    Giving the examples of nations that had abolished Triple Talaq, Shri Shah said that several Islamic nations had already taken the step decades ago, and this proves that such a barbaric practice is not part of Islamic culture.


    Praising the tenacity and decisiveness of the government, Shri Shah said that the road to ending Triple Talaq was not easy, as the Bill was not able to pass through Rajya Sabha multiple times. However, the government persisted with the passage of the Bill and was ultimately successful.


    Commenting on the Constitutional Status of the issue, Shri Shah said that a five judge Constitution Bench had pronounced with a majority of 3-2 that the practice of Triple Talaq violates Article 14 of the Constitution - Equality before the law and equal protection of the law. Thus, Supreme Court itself has declared the practice of Triple Talaq to be illegal, unconstitutional, arbitrary and void.


    Shri Shah said that a soicety must progress with time, otherwise it becomes stale. He also said that the abolition of Triple Talaq would ensure dignity and equality for crores of Muslim women.


    Commenting on the aspect of imprisonment for the violation of the Act, Shri Shah remarked that the correction of many social evils required the application of criminal laws - from Sati Pratha and child marriages to polygamy and dowry.


    Regarding the maintenance of the aggrieved wife and children, Shri Shah said that the husband will be required to provide for the wife he divorces through Triple Talaq, as well as their children.


    Shri Shah said that the law stipulates 3 years of imprisonment for violators, and bail is possible only after the aggrieved woman has had a chance to present her side to the court. Thus, this law empowers Muslim women in the truest sense of the word. Commenting on the results of a survey, Shri Shah said that 92.1% Muslim women wanted Triple Talaq gone.


    He said that he was proud of having voted against ending the social evil of Triple Talaq.


    Shri Shah observed that nepotism, casteism and appeasement have collectively damaged the nation's polity, and emphasized that under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the government had taken steps to remove all three from India's polity.


    Shri Shah stated that with the passage of the Act, the Prime Minister's promise to the nation stands fulfilled. He also said that the world looks up to India with respect because of this move.


    He remarked that great social reformers like Raja Rammohan Roy, Jyotiba Phule, Kavi Narmad Mahatma Gandhi, Veer savarkar and Dr Ambedkar have all contributed to uplifting our society and removing social evils. He said that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi's name would find a place in the list of great social reformers because of his leadership in the quest for abolishing the practice of Triple Talaq.


    Hailing the Prime Minister for the decision, Shri Shah said that the journey of the nation towards development must not stop here. He emphasized that the nation must function not on nepotism, casteism or appeasement, but on merit.


    ****


    VG/HS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582272) Visitor Counter : 746
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi