      Vice President's Secretariat

      Raksha Bandhan is a celebration of solidarity, unity, and humanism: Vice President
      
      Over 100 children from various Schools in Delhi tie Rakhi to Vice President

      Posted On: 15 AUG 2019 3:27PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that empowering women, educating the girl child and making them equal partners in nation-building must be the focus of everyone. ‘Let us rededicate ourselves to upholding the dignity and respect of women in our country,’ he said.


    Speaking to over 100 children from various Schools in Delhi who came to his residence to tie Rakhi on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, he said that the auspicious festival upholds the high place traditionally accorded to women in our society. He said that programmes such as Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao and Beti Badaao into people’s movements.


    Describing Raksha Bandhan as a celebration of solidarity, unity, and humanism, the Vice President said that the festival was an ancient Indian tradition and it was a celebration of human bonding between sisters and brothers.


    Saying that Raksha Bandhan was a symbol of care and protection and it upholds the values of Share and Care which is the core philosophy of India’s age-old traditions & customs, Shri Naidu opined that the festival has a larger significance for contemporary times and probably for all times.


    The Vice President called upon people to take a pledge to usher in a New & Inclusive India where there would be no discrimination on the basis of gender, caste or community. He also wanted them to strive to promote the bonds of love, affection, brotherhood & harmonious co-existence by people of religions & regions.


    The spouse of the Vice President, Smt. Usha Naidu was also present on the occasion and exchanged warm greetings with the children and tied Rakhi’s on the wrists of the ITBP and Delhi Police personnel who are deployed on security duties at the residence of the Vice President.


    ***


    RRK/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582093) Visitor Counter : 380
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu