      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Massive Campaign to be launched to make India free of one time use plastics: Shri Prakash Javadekar
      Posted On: 15 AUG 2019 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Information and Broadcasting Shri Prakash Javadekar, who is in Sao Paulo, Brazil to attend the Ministerial meetings of BRICS and BASIC countries, said that with the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has renewed his appeal to the people, in his Independence Day speech, to make India free of one time use plastics.


    "In response to Prime Minister's call on India’s 73 rd Independence day, to make India free of single use plastics, a massive public campaign will be launched engaging all stakeholders. In this regard a series of meetings will be held with all stakeholders including state governments to chalk out a concrete plan to make it a people's campaign to realise the ultimate target," Mr Javadekar said while addressing a gathering to celebrate 73rd Independence Day at a function organised by the Indian Consulate in Sao Paulo, Brazil.


    Earlier, in a tweet message the Minister said : "PM @narendramodi today called for a campaign to make India free of single use plastics. Let us all strive together to make it happen".


    Touching upon the key highlights of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech from the ramparts of Red Fort today, Mr Javadekar said the Prime Minister while laying out the vision for the next 5 years, highlighted how the first 75 days of the present government was highly productive and several historic decisions like on Triple Talaq, Jammu & Kashmir and on many other issues were taken."Prime Minister has given a strong message -- in the last five years the Government tried to meet the necessities of the people, but now will strive to meet the aspirations of the people," the Minister said adding further that ,”PM in his speech has laid a roadmap for 5 years.... I am sure under his dynamic leadership India would become a 5 trillion dollar economy sooner than later."


    “We have now achieved ‘One Nation, One Constitution’; we had already achieved ‘One Nation, One Grid’. Now people should debate on ‘One Nation, One election’. The Prime Minister has also announced large scale infrastructure development plans with an investment of Rs 100 lakh crore in Road, Rail, Airport, Port, Waterways and other infrastructure. While listing out achievements of the government, the Prime Minister also discussed about ever-increasing population in India and the need to check it through public participation” Mr Javadekar said addressing the gathering comprising of Indian diaspora, NRIs and eminent citizens of Brazil.


    The Minister started his day today by paying respect to Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, at Vivekanand Cultural Centre in Sao Paulo, Brazil. At the flag hosting ceremony at Vivekanand Cultural Centre, he also interacted with Indian diaspora as well as Brazilian citizens.


    ***


    GK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1582113) Visitor Counter : 1860
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Bengali