      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways to enforce ban on single use plastic material
      
      Indian Railways takes lead taking a cue from Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s clarion call to eliminate single use plastic in the country
      
      All vendors & staff across Indian Railways to be encouraged to use reusable bags to reduce plastic footprint
      
      A pledge to be administered to cut use of plastics on 2nd October, 2019

      Posted On: 21 AUG 2019 2:42PM by PIB Delhi

    Taking a cue from the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s clarion call in his Independence Day speech to eliminate single use plastic in the country from 2 nd October, 2019, Indian Railways has once again risen to the occasion to shield the environment from the menace of plastic.Ministry of Railways has directed all Railway unitsto enforce ban on single use plastic material, with less than 50 micron thicknessfrom 2 nd October, 2019. Emphasis is on making necessary arrangementsto minimize generation of plastic waste and its eco- friendly disposal.


    In this regard, Ministry of Railways has issued a circular stating the following instructions areto be enforced: w.e.f. 02.10.2019:

     1. Ban on single use plastic material
     2. All railway vendors to avoid use of plastic carry bags
     3. Staff should reduce, reuse and refuse plastic products and to use inexpensive reusable bags to reduce plastic footprint.
     4. IRCTC to implement return of plastic drinking waterbottles as part of Extended Producer Responsibility.
     5. Plastic Bottle crushing machines to be provided expeditiously.

    Strict enforcement of these instructions is to be from 02.10.2019, to give enough time to all concerned to prepare for “Plastic Free Railway”.


    Ministry of Railways has also instructed its Railway units that a pledge can be administered on 2 nd October, 2019 to cut use of plastics. Also, Information, Education & Communication (IEC) measures are to be adapted to create awareness among railway users.


    *****


    KSP/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582494) Visitor Counter : 1455
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali
    
    
    

5.