      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh approves a Committee to review Defence Procurement Procedure to strengthen ‘Make in India’
      Posted On: 17 AUG 2019 12:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Mantri ShriRajnath Singh has approved setting up of a Committee under the Chairmanship of Director General (Acquisition) to review the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP) 2016 and Defence Procurement Manual (DPM) 2009. The Committee will revise and align the procedures with the aim of ensuring seamless flow from asset acquisition to life cycle support.


    The DPP 2016 and DPM 2009 have been due for revision. Aligning the procedures will ensure seamless flow from asset acquisition to life cycle support and strengthen the ‘Make in India’ initiative of the Government. Apart from DG (Acq) 11 other members, not below the rank of Joint Secretary/Major General equivalent, are part of this high-level committee.


    Terms of reference of the Committee include to:

     1. Revise the procedures as given in DPP 2016 and DPM 2009, so as to remove procedural bottlenecks and hasten defence acquisition.
     2. Align and standardise the provisions in the DPP 2016 and DPM 2009, wherever applicable, to optimise life cycle support for equipment.
     3. Simplify policy and procedures to facilitate greater participation of Indian Industry and develop robust Defence Industrial base.
     4. Wherever applicable, examine and incorporate new concepts, such as life cycle costing, life cycle support, performance based logistics, ICT, lease contracting, codification & standardisation.
     5. Include provisions to promote Indian start-ups and research & development.
     6. Any other aspect which will contribute towards refining the acquisition process and support the ‘Make in India’ initiative.

    The Committee has been given six months to submit its recommendations.


    ***


    ABB/Nampi/DK/Savvy/MTJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582228) Visitor Counter : 1598
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

6.