      Ministry of Defence

      Citations: Chakra series awards to Army on Independence Day 2019
      Posted On: 14 AUG 2019 7:46PM by PIB Delhi


    KIRTI CHAKRA


    16116742F SAPPER PRAKASH JADHAV


    THE CORPS OF ENGINEERS / FIRST BATTALION THE RASHTRIYA RIFLES (POSTHUMOUS)


    At 0330 hours on 27 November 2018, a Cordon and search operation was launched in a village of Jammu & Kashmir.


    Sapper Prakash Jadhav was leading the search party. Suddenly, terrorists opened indiscriminate fire on search party. Sensing danger to his buddy, he pushed him aside, exposed himself, under heavy firing by the terrorists, effectively retaliated back and eliminated one terrorist on the spot. Meanwhile, second terrorist opened fire and threw a petrol bomb. He alerted his team to leave house. In this process, he sustained bullet injuries, however, undeterred from his grave injuries, he fearlessly brought down accurate fire and injured the terrorist. Due to the petrol bomb fire spread all over the house and Sapper Prakash Jadhav could not extricate himself and succumbed to his gunshot wounds and burn injuries.


    Sapper Prakash Jadhav was also recommended for Gallantry award for an operation conducted on 25 October 2018 in which he neutralized a hardcore terrorist.


    Sapper Prakash Jadhav made supreme sacrifice of his life in true traditions of Indian Army. For this act of courage beyond the call of duty and conspicuous gallantry Sapper Prakash Jadhav is recommended for the award of “ KIRTI CHAKRA (POSTHUMOUS)”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    IC-64585A LIEUTENANT COLONEL AJAY SINGH KUSHWAH, SENA MEDAL THE JAMMU AND KASHMIR RIFLES / 3 RD BATTALION THE RASHTRIYA RIFLES 22 NOVEMBER 2018


    On 22 November 2018 at 2355 hours, specific input was received of presence of terrorists in an area in Jammu and Kashmir. The officer immediately sprang into action and led a small team to cordon suspected the area. While cordon was being laid, terrorists detected the movement and rushed out firing indiscriminately. The officer undeterred by fire, quickly retaliated pinning down leading Terrorist. Detecting exact location of the Officer, group of four terrorists charged towards his location. In bold display of raw courage, conspicuous gallantry and unflinching fighting spirit the Officer controlled situation and let the terrorists close in to fair visible distance. The Officer displaying nerves of steel, under enemy fire, ducked down and dashed forward while facing terrorist, he fired from limited cover available and neutralized two terrorists in an intense close quarter battle, both identified as hard core terrorists. The other two terrorists suffered grievous injuries with his immaculate firing.


    For displaying extraordinary tactical acumen, dauntless courage, sterling leadership qualities and self example with utter disregard to personal safety, leading to neutralization of six hardcore terrorists, Lieutenant Colonel Ajay Singh Kushwah, Sena Medal is recommended for the award of “ SHAURYA CHAKRA ”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    SS-44986N MAJOR VIBHUTI SHANKAR DHOUNDIYAL


    THE CORPS OF ELECTRONIC AND MECHANICAL ENGINEERS /


    55 TH BATTALION THE RASHTRIYA RIFLES


    (POSTHUMOUS) 10 NOVEMBER 2018 TO 18 FEBRUARY 2019


    Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal had exhibited unparalleled valour and exceptional leadership qualities in various operations resulting in elimination of five terrorists and recovery of 200 Kilograms of explosive material.


    On 17 February 2019, when input of presence of terrorist group in a village was received, the officer planned a Battalion level operation. During search, officer was fired upon by terrorist hiding in a cow shed resulting in multiple gunshot injuries to him. Despite being severely injured, officer maintained his tactical composure and retaliated terrorist fire. Exhibiting utter disregard to his personal safety, officer crawled closer to cow shed in line of fire to bring down effective fire on hiding terrorists. Subsequently, when terrorists moved out of the cow shed firing indiscriminately, the officer fired on fleeing terrorists facilitating in elimination of one terrorist. Officer succumbed to his injuries at operation site while fighting with terrorists. Terrorist eliminated was identified a foreign terrorist of category, responsible for IED attack on security forces.


    For displaying conspicuous bravery and unparalleled courage resulting in elimination of one terrorist Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal is recommended for the award of “ SHAURYA CHAKRA ( POSTHUMOUS )”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    IC-79501Y CAPTAIN MAHESH KUMAR BHURE


    THE CORPS OF ENGINEERS / 34 TH BATTALION THE


    RASHTRIYA RIFLES 25 NOVEMBER 2018


    On 25 November 2018, Captain Mahesh Kumar Bhure led a team in Jammu & Kashmir, wherein he planned and led the operation in which six top terrorist commanders were eliminated.


    Captain Mahesh Kumar Bhure cordoned the target house and achieved complete surprise, thereby trapping the terrorists. The terrorists attempted to break the cordon in darkness by lobbing grenades and firing indiscriminately. As they ran towards his position, the officer retaliated with deadly accurate fire at close range, thereby killing a terrorist and forcing the other terrorists to retreat back.


    Seeing his buddy wounded in this firefight, Captain Mahesh Kumar Bhure put himself at great risk and personally evacuated him under very heavy fire. He then readjusted the cordon to prevent any escape and was able to pin down the terrorists. Thereafter, with raw courage and steely determination he crawled forward under intense fire and at point blank range killed one more terrorist.


    For his display of exemplary leadership under heavy fire and unparalleled courage under the most challenging circumstances, Captain Mahesh Kumar Bhure is recommend for the award of “ SHAURYA CHAKRA” .


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    19000555M LANCE NAIK SANDEEP SINGH


    4 TH BATTALION THE PARACHUTE REGIMENT (SPECIAL FORCES)


    (POSTHUMOUS) 21 SEPTEMBER 2018


    Lance Naik Sandeep Singh was enrolled into the SIKH Regiment on 18 June 2007 and later joined 4th Battalion, The Parachute Regiment (Special Forces) on 05 July 2008.


    On 22 September 2018, Lance Naik Sandeep Singh was the leading scout of the Special Forces squad under Captain Gurjeet Saini which was carrying out search operation to locate and neutralise an infiltrated group of hardcore foreign terrorists at an altitude of 12,500 feet in Jammu & Kashmir. The rocky nature of the terrain and lack of vegetation made the conduct of operation extremely difficult.


    During the operation, Sandeep Singh tracked the accurate location of the terrorists and alerted his squad. As the squad was getting deployed, they came under heavy effective fire from the terrorists. Realising the imminent danger to his squad members, Sandeep Singh displaying field craft of an exceptional order closed in on the terrorists and neutralised one terrorist at very close range with accurate rifle fire. One of the remaining terrorist lobbed a grenade at Sandeep injuring him severely. Thereafter, the terrorists started engaging the rest of the squad with effective fire. Lance Naik Sandeep Singh in a daring act crawled close towards the other two terrorists and engaged them, during which he was once again hit by terrorists fire which led to his rifle falling into a nearby gorge. In a selfless and brave act Lance Naik Sandeep Singh grabbed one of the terrorist and engaged him in hand to hand combat. Taking advantage of the pause in the terrorists fire, the rest of the squad quickly moved on to a position of advantage and engaged the terrorists effectively. Lance Naik Sandeep Singh while in hand to hand combat was shot by the third terrorist mortally wounding him.


    Sandeep Singh displayed raw courage and utmost gallantry in personally eliminating one foreign terrorist, seriously injuring two terrorists and sacrificing his own life in highest traditions of the Indian Army thereby ensuring safety of his squad and subsequent elimination of three terrorists. For this selflessness and conspicuous courage beyond the call of duty, Lance Naik Sandeep Singh is recommended for the award of ‘ SHAURYA CHAKRA (POSTHUMOUS)’ .


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    2498034F SEPOY BRAJESH KUMAR


    THE PUNJAB REGIMENT / 22 ND BATTALION THE RASHTRIYA RIFLES


    (POSTHUMOUS) 26 OCTOBER 2018


    Sepoy Brajesh Kumar volunteered to serve in the Rashtriya Rifles for a second tenure. He was serving with 22 Rashtriya Rifles from 30 September 2016.


    On 26 October 2018, based on input regarding presence of terrorists in a village in Jammu & Kashmir an operation was launched. First terrorist was neutralised at 0420 hours. The second terrorist started crawling towards buddy pair of Major Sagar Prakash Pardeshi, Sena Medal. Sensing danger to his comrades Sepoy Brajesh Kumar came out in open and under effective covering fire from his buddy, he accurately engaged the second terrorist, thereby grievously injuring him. Displaying superlative tactical acumen and field craft Sepoy Brajesh Kumar then readjusted his position to cut off the escape route. Under cover of darkness injured terrorist then lobbed grenade towards Sepoy Brajesh Kumar, thereby grievously injuring him.


    Despite being injured, he refused evacuation and under effective covering fire from his buddy, he crawled forward and eliminated second terrorist in close quarter combat.


    For displaying indomitable courage and undaunting bravery beyond call of duty in eliminating a Pakistani terrorist, Sepoy Brajesh Kumar is recommended for the award of “ SHAURYA CHAKRA ( POSTHUMOUS )”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    2706918P SEPOY HARI SINGH


    THE GRENADIERS / 55 TH BATTALION THE RASHTRIYA RIFLES


    (POSTHUMOUS) 18 FEBRUARY 2019


    On night of 17 and 18 February 2019, based on input regarding presence of terrorist group in a village in Jammu & Kashmir.


    Sepoy Late Hari Singh alongwith Major Late Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal led the search from front. While searching a cow shed, terrorists opened indiscriminate fire resulting in multiple gun shots injury to the individual. Despite being injured, maintaining his tactical composure, Sepoy Late Hari Singh retaliated fire immediately and did not allow terrorists to escape. Exhibiting utter disregard to his safety, Sepoy Hari Singh re-adjusted his position close to cow shed in the line of fire to bring effective fire on hiding terrorists. Subsequently, when terrorists moved out of the cow sheds firing indiscriminately, Sepoy Hari Singh brought down heavy fire on terrorists and eliminated one terrorist and inflicted injuries to one more terrorist and attained martyrdom while fighting with terrorists at operation site. Terrorist eliminated was identified as a foreign terrorist.


    For display of conspicuous courage and unparalleled devotion to duty, Sepoy Hari Singh is recommended for the award of “ SHAURYA CHAKRA ( POSTHUMOUS )”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    4101010K RIFLEMAN AJVEER SINGH CHAUHAN


    6 TH BATTALION THE GARHWAL RIFLES 18 AUGUST 2018


    On 18 August 2018, Rifleman Ajveer Singh Chauhan was a part of an ambush along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir.


    At approximate 1215 hours, on detecting a suspicious movement behind the Improved Anti Infiltration Obstacle System near, Rifleman Ajveer Singh Chauhan along with his buddy Rifleman Preetam Singh went ahead to check the same. As they reached near the fence, they were suddenly fired upon by terrorists from behind the fence. They quickly lied down on ground and using field craft, crawled to the nearest tree and took cover behind it. The terrorists were continuously firing on them by AK-47 rifles and UBGL grenades. The rifleman with his presence of mind and a calm head assessed the situation. Soon, the terrorists had emptied their magazines and there was lull in the firing. When the terrorists were changing their magazines, Rifleman Ajveer Singh Chauhan, displaying exceptional courage and presence of mind brought accurate fire on the terrorists and eliminated two terrorists out of total three terrorists.


    For displaying raw courage, presence of mind with utter disregard to personal safety, Rifleman Ajveer Singh Chauhan is recommended for “ SHAURYA CHAKRA ” for neutralising two terrorists and successfully eliminating the infiltration bid.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    9112648L RIFLEMAN SHIVE KUMAR


    THE JAMMU AND KASHMIR LIGHT INFANTRY / 31 ST BATTALION THE


    RASHTRIYA RIFLES (POSTHUMOUS) 31 AUGUST 2018


    On 31 Aug 2018, Rifleman Shive Kumar was part of the seek and destroy mission in an area in Jammu & Kashmir.


    At about 0718 hours, Rifleman Shive Kumar noticed movement of terrorists at very close range. He immediately sensed that his Team Commander who had not seen the terrorist is vulnerable to fire. With utter disregard to personal safety and sensing danger to the life of his Team Commander, Shive Kumar charged towards the terrorist. He came under heavy barrage of accurate fire from the terrorists and suffered multiple gun shot wounds due to which he dropped his weapon. Displaying raw courage and despite being injured he kept on charging towards the terrorist and pounced on him, overpowered him and killed him with his bare hands. Still sensing the grave danger to which his own troops were exposed, he picked up the weapon of the terrorist and injured the second terrorist before succumbing to his injuries.


    For this gallantry act of exceptional valour and exemplary raw courage, Rifleman Shive Kumar is recommended for the award of SHAURYA CHAKRA (POSTHUMOUS) .


    Col Aman Anand


    PRO (Army)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582024) Visitor Counter : 658