      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister presides over the Passing out Parade of the 70th Batch of Indian Police Service Probationers
      
      Sardar Patel’s vision of a Unified India realized in true spirit after abrogation of Article 370: Shri Amit Shah
      
      “Sampark, Samvaad, Samanvay” – core principles to build connect with People and Serve them best: Home Minister
      
      A SMART police force is the flag bearer of achieving PM’s vision of a 5 trillion dollar economy: Shri Amit Shah
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2019 12:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Home Affairs, Shri Amit Shah presided over the Passing out Parade (PoP) of the 70 th Batch of Indian Police Service (IPS) Probationers at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA), in Hyderabad today. The event was also graced by Governor of Telangana, Shri E. S. L. Narasimhan and Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy, along with senior officers and family members of the probationers.


    During the PoP ceremony, the Home Minister inspected the parade and awarded the best performing probationers, amongst a total of 103 officers that included 15 lady officers, 6 Royal Bhutan Police and 5 Nepal Police Service officers. Shri Shah congratulated all the probationary officers, especially the lady officers, and gave best wishes for their bright careers.
    He expressed pride that the young officers would soon be joining the distinguished tradition of Indian Police Service in serving the Nation with utmost dedication.


    Saluting the ‘Iron Man of India’, Shri Shah said that this academy is established in Hyderabad, a place that saw a historic police action under the leadership of Shri Vallabhbhai Patel in 1948 that resulted in the merger of the erstwhile Hyderabad state into the Indian union. He paid tributes to Sardar Patel for integrating over 600 princely states and giving shape to the Indian Union. The Home Minister stated that the only state that remained from truly integrating into the Indian union was Jammu & Kashmir (JK). It has also now been integrated by the bold step taken by Government of India under the decisive leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi by abrogating Article 370. Today, Sardar Patel’s vision of a unified India has been realized in true spirit, he added.
    Addressing the probationers, Shri Shah said that the IPS was envisioned as the forbearers of preventing corruption in India by Sardar Patel. He stated, “Your aim must not end by getting selected in Civil Services, but the path to make India free from corruption and become safe and secure from external and internal threats, starts from here on. The future would present a lot of challenges and hardships. You are becoming a part of the legacy of those 33000 officers who have laid down their lives in service of the Nation. You have to always work dedicatedly to ensure security and integrity of India. You would have to remember the oath taken here today and keep treading on the path of committed service to the Nation all your life. Your life must be dedicated to uplifting the lives of thousands of fellow citizens who have not got this opportunity”.


    Motivating the young probationers to become team leaders and lead from the front by example, Shri Shah said, “Sampark (Connect), Samvaad (Communicate) aur Samanvay (Coordinate) are the core principles of team building and achieve success in challenging situations”. He emphasized on reaching the people, communicating constantly and building a connect, in order to serve them in the most successful manner. Shri Shah gave the example of his own political career and how he has been able to successfully build a connect with the grassroots and serve the people of the country. He said politicians only get elected for five years but civil servants get the opportunity to serve the country for whole life, which must not be wasted. Being free from fear and taking decisions for the betterment of masses, while abiding by the tenets of the Constitution, is the hallmark of an officer and only by following this principle can one become a successful police officer, he added.
    Shri Shah stated, “Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi has given a vision of a SMART Police (S - Sensitive and Strict; M - Modern with mobility; A - Alert and Accountable; R - Reliable and Responsive; T - Trained and Techno-savvy). The police forces must continuously remodel on this vision to successfully face the challenges in the future”. Further, he stated that PM's vision of a 5 trillion dollar economy can only be achieved when the law and order situation in the country is stable and peaceful. A SMART police force is the flag bearer of achieving PM’s vision of a 5 trillion dollar economy, he added.


    Concluding his address, the Home Minister expressed confidence that all probationers would maintain the high traditions of the police services and dedicate their lives to the service of the Nation. He also saluted the sacrifices of the parents of the probationers for giving the Nation the new batch of dedicated police officers.


    *****


    VG/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582825) Visitor Counter : 694
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Punjabi , Telugu