      AYUSH

      PM to present Yoga Awards and release 12 AYUSH Commemorative Postal Stamps tomorrow, also launch 10 AYUSH Health and Wellness Centres
      Posted On: 29 AUG 2019 2:36PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will present Yoga awards to the winners of PM’s Award for Outstanding Contribution for Promotion and Development of Yoga , which were announced during the International Day of Yoga, 2019 at Ranchi, along with the two winners of the previous year in an event being organized by the Ministry of AYUSH tomorrow at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi.


    On this occasion, the Prime Minister would also release 12 commemorative postal stamps to honour eminent scholars, Practitioners and great Master Healers of AYUSH Systems. These commemorative postal stamps highlight the great work and acknowledge the achievements of the great Master Healers of AYUSH Systems.


    The PM’s award for outstanding contribution for Promotion and Development of Yoga had been institutionalized and announced during 2 nd International Day of Yoga (IDY) event held at Chandigarh on 21 st June, 2016 and since then the awards are conferred to the notable contributors in the field. Winners, selected under different categories out of 79 nominations for the current year and 186 nominations in the previous year, were announced this year during the IDY event held at Ranchi and each of them will be felicitated with a Cash Award of Rs. 25 lakh, Trophy and a Certificate.


    Winners of the year 2019 Yoga Awards are - Swami Rajarshi Muni of Life Mission, Gujarat in Individual-National category, Ms. Antonietta Rozzi, Italy in Individual-International category, Bihar School of Yoga, Munger, Bihar in Organisation-National category, and Japan Yoga Niketan, Japan in Organisation-International Organisation category and Winners of 2018 Yoga Awards are Shri Vishwas Mandalik, Nasik, Individual- National category and the Yoga Institute, Mumbai, Organisation – National category.


    The Prime Minister will also launch 10 AYUSH Health and Wellness Centres (AYUSH HWCs) located in the state of Haryana and are in line with Ministry of AYUSH’s commitment to make 12,500 AHWCs functional in next three years. In order to provide comprehensive primary healthcare, AYUSH components have been integrated in Health and Wellness Centres under Ayushman Bharat. These Centres will be complementing the National Health Policy, 2017 that insisted upon integration and mainstreaming of AYUSH services in conventional health care delivery system. It would be a historic beginning in mainstreaming of holistic, preventive, curative, rehabilitative and palliative AYUSH care for achieving comprehensive health care. The main focus of these AYUSH HWCs would be empowering the community for ‘self care’ by imbibing AYUSH based healthy food and lifestyle, social behaviour and use of medicinal plants for primary health care. Provisions will also be made for diagnostics and medicines for a wide range of health problems. These services will be in addition to the currently on going National Health Programs.


    ***


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583425) Visitor Counter : 1367
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali