      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award 2018 Announced
      Posted On: 27 AUG 2019 12:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Awards are given every yeartorecognize the achievements of persons in the fields of adventure, to encourage young people to develop the spirit of endurance, risk–taking, cooperative teamwork and quick, ready and effective reflexes in challenging situations and to provide incentive to the young people for getting exposed to the adventure activities.


    The award is given in four categories namely, Land Adventure, Water Adventure, Air Adventure and Life Time Achievement. This year National Selection Committee was constituted under the chairpersonship of Secretary (Youth Affairs). The Committee had expert members from the field of adventure.


    Based on the recommendations of the Committee and after due scrutiny, the Government has decided to confer awards upon the following:

                                                        
Sl. No.  Name                      Category             
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
1.       Ms. Aparna Kumar          Land Adventure       
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
2.       Late Shri Dipankar Ghosh  Land Adventure       
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
3.       Shri Manikandan K.        Land Adventure       
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
4.       Shri Prabhat Raju Koli    Water Adventure      
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
5.       Shri RameshwerJangra      Air Adventure        
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
6.       Shri Wangchuk Sherpa      Life Time Achievement
                                                        
                                                        

    The awardees will receive their awards from the President of India along with other Sports Awardees at the Rashtrapati Bhawan on 29 th August, 2019. They will receive statuettes, certificates and award money of Rs. 5 lakh each.


    *****


    YB/TK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1583116) Visitor Counter : 3740
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali