      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Liberalization of medical visa regime: facilitation by non-requirement of conversion of primary visa into medical visa when a foreigner seeks admission into a hospital owing to an illness
      Posted On: 30 AUG 2019 6:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Some foreign nationals, who are already in India on valid visas, were facing difficulties in taking medical treatment in the event of their falling sick during their stay in India. They were being advised by some hospitals to get their visas converted into medical visas before admitting them in hospitals/medical centers.


    The Government of India had already revised the procedure last year, which exempts foreigners from getting their primary visa converted into medical visa for obtaining indoor treatment up to 180 days for seeking admission in a hospital wing owing to illness. Now, the Government of India has further liberalized the Medical Visa regime and permitted foreigners to get the indoor treatment on their primary (original) visa even for pre-existing diseases (except in cases of organ transplant) which the foreigner may have been suffering from even before his/her entry into India. So now:


    1. A foreigner suffering from a minor medical condition, which needs only OPD consultation/treatment, may take treatment at any hospital/treatment centre on his/her primary visa.


    2. I case of indoor medical treatment of less than 180 days or up to the stay stipulation period, if any, stipulated on primary visa of a foreigner or the duration of his/her primary visa, whichever is earlier, a foreigner is permitted to take such indoor medical treatment subject to certain conditions.


    3. The indoor treatment may now be taken on primary (original) visa irrespective of the fact that the diseases, which the foreigner may have been suffering from even before his/her entry into India and even for ailments which were in his/her knowledge.


    4. Treatment of diseases, which require organ transplant shall, however, be permitted only on a Medical Visa.


    *******


    VG/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583680) Visitor Counter : 509
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi