      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Dr Jitendra Singh chairs meeting to review ongoing projects of North East and future plans
      Posted On: 29 AUG 2019 5:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (IC) Dr Jitendra Singh chaired a review meeting with the officials of Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (MDoNER) and North Eastern Council (NEC), here today. Secretary, MDoNER; Secretary, NEC; and other senior officials were present during the meeting.


    The officials briefed the Minister about the progress made on the ongoing projects in the North Eastern Region(NER). During the meeting, Dr Jitendra Singh was informed that all the North-Eastern States have provided data for the Education and Research Network (ERNET ) paving way for bringing the NER under Digital India Programme to make the citizens of the country digitally empowered in the field of technology. Dr Jitendra Singh appreciated the achievement of the Ministry of DoNER in this direction.


    The Minister was briefed about the Hostel for North Easter students in Delhi-NCR being constructed in JNU campus at Delhi. The Engineering team confirmed that the tender for the Hostel Building has been concluded and the work is likely to commence on ground by 1 st week of September,2019. This is first of its kind hostel in JNU. The Hostel will accommodate 408 students. In addition to that 24 rooms have been earmarked for Divyang students of the NER.


    The status of the North Eastern Cultural and Convention Centre to be set up in Dwarka in New Delhi was also discussed during the meeting. The estimated cost of the project is about Rs. 94.00 crore. Proposed design of the building was discussed to which Minister gave some suggestions to make it more futuristic and to make auditorium of large capacity . He said that this Centre will act as a cultural and convention/information hub of the North Eastern Region in Delhi.


    The Minister also suggested for making arrangements for putting up Exhibitions and stalls of North-East products and handicrafts in Jammu and Kashmir so that connectivity between North-Eastern States and J&K may be increased.


    While taking stock of the initiatives and projects to be implemented in the region, Dr. Jitendra Singh said that the development of the NER has been the priority for the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi. The Government will make all efforts for the implementation of ongoing development projects in North Eastern Region and will take measures to introduce new projects for the benefit of people of North East


    The Minister was also briefed about the preparations made for the upcoming North Eastern Council 68 th Pplenary Meet to be held on September 8 th and 9 th , 2019 at Guwahati. The Status of the Report on the 100 days of Government was also discussed during the meeting.


    ********


    VG/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583500) Visitor Counter : 375
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi