      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      DoT allocates two additional dedicated frequencies for running Community Radio - 89.6 and 90.0 MHz
      
      Ad rates for Community Radio Stations to be revised by BOC within 2 months: Shri Amit Khare
      
      I&B Ministry to establish Community Radio Stations in every district of the Country
      
      Three day National Community Radio Sammelan draws to a close

      Posted On: 29 AUG 2019 3:52PM by PIB Delhi

    The 7th National Community Radio Sammelan, being organized by Ministry of Information & Broadcasting at Dr. BR Ambedkar Bhawan, New Delhi drew to a close today. Delivering the Valedictory Address, Shri Amit Khare, Secretary, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting informed that the Department of Telecommunications has agreed to dedicate two additional frequencies viz. 89.6 and 90.0 MHz for running Community Radio Stations. He also announces that on the lines of recent hike in advertisement rates for print and electronic media, the advertisement rates for Community Radio will be revised by the Bureau of Outreach and Communication within two months.


    Shri Khare also announced that a Community Radio Cell will be set up in the Ministry for grievance redressal and collating actionable suggestions received from stakeholders. He added that the Media and Communication Plan of all Ministries of the Government must include Community Radio to leverage their deeper ground level penetration. He also said that the compendium of all the programmes running on Community Radio Stations all across the country released by Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar on the second day of the Sammelan will be distributed to all District Collectors to sensitize them for utilization of Communication Radio in their local communication endeavours.


    Shri Khare further announced that the National Sammelan would now be held annually, along with Regional Sammelans which be held in different corners of the country. Stating that the Ministry’s aim to to set up at least one Community Radio Station in each district, starting with Aspirational Districts, Shri Khare expressed hope of spread of a Community Radio Movement in the country.


    Shri Atul Kumar Tiwari, Addl. Secretary, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting said that the development of a vibrant culture of Community Radio will help in greater information dissemination at the grassroot level, which will result in further empowerment of people. He summed up the sessions held during the course of the three day Sammelan and thanked everyone for participating with fervour and infectious enthusiasm.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583457) Visitor Counter : 1102
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali