      Vice President's Secretariat

      The world is looking positively towards India: Vice President
      
      India should become the healthiest and most ideal parliamentary democracy;
      
      VP urges people to observe decorum, discipline and civic sense;
      
      Addresses an informal get-together organised by the friends and well-wishers
      Posted On: 28 AUG 2019 8:17PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that the world was looking positively to the Indian reforms and the development agenda undertook by the government.


    Speaking at an informal get-together organised by the Vice President’s friends and well-wishers on the completion of his two years in office, in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh today, he said that the world was looking with renewed interest towards India. “India has now become an attractive destination for investments,” he added.


    The Vice President said that India’s age-old civilizational values, its commitment to peace and non-violence and the revolutionary reforms like Goods and Services Tax have attracted the attention of the world. Despite the global slowdown India continues to be the fastest-growing large economy, he pointed out.


    While noting that India was the largest Parliamentary democracy, Shri Naidu said that the time has come for transforming it into the healthiest and most ideal parliamentary democracy. He also stressed that accountability and transparency have to be maintained at all levels in public life.


    Shri Naidu stressed the need for people in all walks of life to observe decorum, discipline and civic sense and urged people in public life to raise the standards of discourse.


    Shri Naidu, who is also the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha advised public representatives to always interact with common people and try to fulfill their aspirations.


    Referring to abrogation of Article 370, the Vice President called upon the people to speak in one voice and remain united as it concerned the unity and integrity of the country.


    ***


    RRK/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583328) Visitor Counter : 1210
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi