      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Campaign Angikaar & E-Course on Vulnerability Atlas Launched
      Posted On: 29 AUG 2019 7:26PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Hardeep S Puri, Minister of State (I/C) for Housing and Urban Affairs today launched “angikaar” a campaign for change managementand e-Course on Vulnerability Atlas of India here today.


    In line with the vision of Prime Minister, A ngikaar has been launched for social behaviour change, focusing on issues such as water & energy conservation, waste management, health, tree plantation, sanitation and hygiene for beneficiaries of completed houses under PMAY (U), through community mobilisation and IEC activities.For this purpose, the campaign will converge with schemes and Missions of other Ministries dealing with these subjects. The convergence would especially focus on Ujjwala for gas connection and Ayushman Bharat for health insurance to the beneficiaries of PMAY (U).


    Under PMAY (U) about 88 lakh houses has been approved till now as against demand of 1.12 crore. The angikaar aims at reaching out all the beneficiaries of the Mission in phased manner. The campaign will be initiated in all target cities on 2 nd October 2019 commemorating 150 th Gandhi Jayanti after preparatory phase and culminate on the occasion of Human Rights Day, 10 th December, 2019. The campaign will include door to door activities, ward and city level events.


    The e-course on Vulnerability Atlas is offered by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs in collaboration of School of Planning & Architecture (SPA), New Delhi and Building Materials & Technology Promotion Council (BMTPC). It is a unique course that offers awareness and understanding about natural hazards, helps identify regions with high vulnerability with respect to various hazards (earthquakes, cyclones, landslides, floods, etc.) and specifies district-wise level of damage risks to the existing housing stock. The e-course will be a tool for effective & efficient disaster mitigation & management in the field of Architecture, Civil Engineering, Urban & Regional Planning, Housing & Infrastructure Planning, Construction Engineering & Management and Building & Materials Research. The registration to e-Course on Vulnerability Atlas of India will be through SPA’s website www.spa.ac.in .


    During the inauguration of Construction Technology India (CTI-2019), Hon’ble Prime Minister gave a mandate to enable “Ease of Living” for PMAY (U) beneficiaries and emphasized the need to incorporate hazard safety provisions in all construction works. In this direction, as a part of 100 days agenda the Ministry has launched these initiatives.


    ***


    RJ/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583534) Visitor Counter : 5537
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi