      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      CPWD Work Order Stands At Rs 1,50,000 Crore
      
      Over 1,100 Construction Works Worth Rs 6,500 Crore Completed
      
      Over 2,000 Projects Costing over Rs. 40,000 Crore of more than 600 Departments/Ministries being Executed
      
      New works Costing over Rs. 15,000 Crores Entrusted to CPWD
      
      HRD Minister Awards “Distinguished Alumnus Award” To DG, CPWD
      Posted On: 30 AUG 2019 6:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank”, Minister of Human Resource Development has conferred Distinguished Alumnus Award” of Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur to Shri Prabhakar Singh, Director General, CPWD in a Convocation Ceremony at IIT Kharagpur for his outstanding and exemplary service to the Nation as a Distinguished Technocrat.With 37 years of service in CPWD in different capacities, Shri Singh has made exemplary and outstanding contributions in every aspect of Engineering profession encompassing planning, estimation, structural design, project management, contract management, finance management, arbitration, quality assurance, vigilance besides administration. He is a Mechanical Engineering Graduate from IIT, Kharagpur and MBA from one of the Premier Management Institute of the Country, is managing the affairs of the Premier Engineering Organization - CPWD having a glorious legacy of over 165 year. Under his Leadership, CPWD has metamorphosed into a modern, efficient and focused organization.


    Shri Prabhakar Singh, Director General, CPWD receiving “Distinguished Alumnus Award” from Minister, Ministry of Human Resource Development.


    CPWD under his dynamic and visionary leadership has undergone an unprecedented paradigm shift in its functioning and a new period of accelerated positive change has been perceived by one and all. CPWD has entered to a new growth phase keeping its vision and mission clear and focused. CPWD has become the most coveted destination for the Government Departments / PSUs / Autonomous Bodies for catering to their built requirements. It has excelled on its role as Principal Technical Advisor to the Government of India.


    CPWD is playing a pivotal role in the Central Government’s developmental activities. Since he took over the reins of department, increase in workload of the Department has been phenomenal and unprecedented in comparison to trend of previous years. Order booked including works in progress and in pipeline, have grown to the tune of all time high of Rs. 150000 crores. Over 1100 construction works worth 6500 crores have been completed. Over 2000 projects costing over Rs. 40000 crores of more than 600 Departments and Ministries are presently being executed by the CPWD. Inrecent past alone, new works costing over Rs. 15000 crores have been entrusted to CPWD. It demonstrates his high caliber and competence of taking forward the CPWD in to an organization of Engineering Excellence. He has brought holistic change in the overall operations of the department.


    Special attention has also been laid during his leadership on innovative development by creating energy efficient and sustainable habitats. He has been instrumental in promoting construction of Green Buildings and adoption of new and emerging technologies and various energy efficiency and conservation measures in the construction.


    Taking to clarion call of Hon’ble Prime Minister’s announcement for the year 2019-20 as the ‘ Year of Construction Technology’ , DG, CPWD while receiving the Award stated that CPWD took a lead and pioneer role in this direction. Sixteen new and innovative technologies have been adopted by CPWD in its works to ensure speedy, ecofriendly, neat and tidy execution. A National Seminar on “Use of Innovative Technologies and Materials in Construction” was held on June 14, 2019 in New Delhi to promote use of innovative technologies and materials in the construction industry . Moving further in this direction, a s knowledge sharing of the latest developments and capacity building in the field of Architecture design and planning, another National Seminar on “ Emerging Trends in Public Architecture ” shall be held on September 18, 2019 in New Delhi.


    CPWD intends to further undertake various programmes during the year to rejoice the spirit of construction in the country. Shri Singh also stated that he is committed to make CPWD as an Organization of Engineering Excellence with State-of-the-art technologies, benchmarked operations and well organized human resource.


    ***


    RJ/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583673) Visitor Counter : 431
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi