      Ministry of Culture

      Shri Prahlad Singh Patel launches integrated NOAPS single window clearing system of National Monuments Authority for 517 local bodies in six States
      Posted On: 27 AUG 2019 6:18PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Culture & Tourism (Independent Charge),Shri Prahlad Singh Patel launched an integrated NOC online Application Processing System for National Monuments Authority (NMA) for 517 local bodies of six states in New Delhi today. This will help in online processing of applications requesting NOC for construction related work in prohibited and regulated area of ASI protected monuments.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Union Culture Minister said that with increase of urbanization, development, growth and increasing population pressure, there is growing pressure on land including the land around centrally protected monuments. As this often affects the monument/site adversely it is important that such growth around the centrally protected monuments is properly regulated, balancing the needs of individuals and growth and development on the one hand and the requirements of preservation and protection of these monuments on the other.


    The Minister said that this website will help common people substantially in line with the vision of Prime minister, Shri Narendra Modi regarding Digital India &Ease of Doing Business. Many times people don’t know about the law & they become the victim,this is a great step of NMA andour focus is to bring awareness amongst common man, the Minister added.


    Shri Patel said that from today Six New States will be part of this Integrated Online Application Portal with Urban Local Bodies Count. He expressed his gratitude towards six participating States and hoped that other states will also be part of this soon.


    The details of States and Urban Local Bodies are as following-

     1. Madhya Pradesh (378)
     2. Andhra Pradesh (110)
     3. Haryana (15)
     4. Punjab (10)
     5. Jharkhand (3)
     6. Telangana (1)

    Earlier this system was available only for five urban local bodies of Delhi and one urban local body of Mumbai.


    The Portal has integration with the Smart ‘Smarac’ Mobile App of Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO), through which the applicant traverses his plot and the geo coordinates of his plot along with the images get uploaded into the NIC portal along with the proximity and the approval status.


    National Monuments Authority (NMA) under the Ministry of Culture, Govt. of India has been setup as per provisions of “The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains AMASR (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010”. In order to automate the process of grant of NO Objection Certificate(NOC) for construction related work in the prohibited and regulated area, NMA had decided to Design, Develop and Implement a web enabled Software (S/w) application named NOC online Application Processing System (NOAPS) and launched it in the public domain over the URL: http://nmanoc.nic.in/ . With the objective of introducing transparency, “ NOAPS Non Single window system” was launched on 29th September 2015. Further, “ NOAPS Single window system” was officially launched on Ist May 2016.


    The applicant needs to fill up a single form which is being sent to the concerned agencies by the Urban Local Body, from whom No Objection Certificate (NOC) is required. NMA on its part will communicate its decision to the local body within 15-30 working days, bringing down the time limit from ninety days, as prescribed in Ancient Monuments and Archeological Sites and Remains (AMASR) Act.


    By this integration, the National Monuments Authority has made a humble effort towards the Mantra of “Reform, Perform and Transform” given by Shri Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583175) Visitor Counter : 1379
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu
    
    
    

6.