      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister launches Integrated Online junction for School Education ‘Shagun’
      
      Shagun is one of world’s largest system of its kind to improve school education: Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’

      Posted On: 28 AUG 2019 5:30PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ launched one of world’s largest Integrated Online Junction for – School Education ‘Shagun’ in New Delhi today. The Minister of State for HRD, Shri Sanjay Shamrao Dhotre was also present on the occasion.


    School Education Shagun (URL: htpp://shagun.govt.in/) is an over-arching initiative to improve school education system by creating a junction for all online portals and websites relating to various activities of the Department of School Education and Literacy in the Government of India and all States and Union Territories.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Pokhriyal said that the word Shagun is coined from two different words- ‘Shala’ meaning Schools and ‘Gunvatta’ meaning Quality and this online junction of different websites and portals into a single platform will enhance the accessibility of information relating to schools and will ensure a holistic approach to transform education sector.


    The Minister informed that websites of 1200 KendriyaVidyalayas, 600 NavodayaVidyalayas, 18000 other CBSE affiliated schools, 30 SCERTs, 19000 organisations affiliated with NTCE among others are integrated with Shagun. Report cards of 15 lakh schools all over the country will be available on the newly created junction, the Minister explained. The portal seeks to connect approximately 92 lakh teachers and 26 crore students. He added that the websiteprovides a very robust feedback mechanism. Common people can directly give their feedback about schools which will further increase the public participation and will ensure accountability and transparency.


    He added that recourse to this single source of information will immensely benefit all the stakeholders, viz. the parents and the general public, the heads of the schools, the teachers, the students, the policy makers, the officials and the researchers.


    Shri Pokhriyal also informed that the website also provides vital information relating to availability of nearby schools, navigable distance vis-a vis aerial distance between schools thereby helping the policy makers in taking informed decisions.


    He also announced the setting up of the Integrated National School Education Treasury (INSET) which envisages a fully integrated, instantly accessible and seamless information network for all parameters relating to the students, teachers, and schools in the country.


    The main focus will be on the following areas:

      * Reinforcing and cleaning the data of the Integrated Online Junction through feedback from Stakeholders
      * Ensuring full inter-operability among the websites, portals and applications which are already hosted in the junction
      * Creating high quality e-contents, including quizzes and puzzles to enhance learning and also for teachers in aiding classroom transactions
      * Using artificial intelligence and deep machine learning in a variety of ways to enhance the quality of school education including for designing evidence based inventions.

    A booklet giving features and benefits of Shagun was also released on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion,the Minister of the State for HRD Shri Sanjay ShamraoDhotre said that the newly created platform will provide all school related information at one place . This will help students, parents and other stakeholders in ensuring all round development of the child. This platform will not only give information but people can also give their suggestions, which will help in the creation of a better system.


    Smt. Rina Ray, Secretary, Department of School Education and Literacy, MHRD and other officials of the Ministry were also present on the occasion.


    The integrated online junction is accessible at http://seshagun.gov.in .


    SE Shagun - English (PDF) Booklet


    SE Shagun - Hindi (PDF) Booklet


    ******


    NB/ AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583276) Visitor Counter : 1863
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Gujarati
    
    
    

*