      AYUSH

      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Guinea on Cooperation in the Field of Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homeopathy
      Posted On: 28 AUG 2019 7:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval for the M emorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Republic of Guinea on Cooperation in the Field of Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homeopathy. The MoU was signed on 02 nd August,2019 during the 3-day visit of the President Shri Ram Nath Kovind to Guinea.


    Major impact:


    The MoU will enhance bilateral cooperation between the two countries in the areas of Traditional Systems of Medicine. This will be of immense importance to both countries considering their shared cultural heritage.


    Implementation strategy and targets:


    The activities between the two sides will start after the receipt of copy of the signed MoU. The initiatives taken between the two countries will be as per the terms of reference of the MoU signed and will be a continuing process till the MoU remains in operation.


    Expenditure involved:


    There are no additional financial implications involved. The financial resources necessary to conduct research, training courses, conferences/ meetings and deputations of experts will be met from the existing allocated budget and existing plan schemes of Ministry of AYUSH.


    Background


    India is blessed with well-developed systems of traditional medicine including medicinal plants, which hold tremendous potential in the global health scenario.


    The Ministry of AYUSH of the Republic of India having mandate to promote, propagate AYUSH systems (including Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, Sowa-Rigpa and Homoeopathy) globally. As a part of global promotion and propagation of the AYUSH systems of medicine, the Ministry of AYUSH has signed Country to Country MoUs on cooperation in the field of Traditional Medicine with various countries and also established AYUSH academic Chairs in identified Universities in various foreign countries.


    Keeping in view of the need for promotion and propagation of AYUSH systems of medicine in Guinea, our standard draft MoU for cooperation in the field of Traditional medicine and Homoeopathy was shared with the Guinean side through Central and West Africa Division, Ministry of External Affairs.


    *****


    VRRK/PK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583301) Visitor Counter : 213
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil , Kannada