      AYUSH

      Cabinet approves Signing of Agreement between India and Peru on Cooperation in the field of Medicinal Plants
      Posted On: 28 AUG 2019 7:46PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of agreement between the National Medicinal Plants Board, Ministry of AYUSH of the Republic of India and the National Institute of Health of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Peru on Cooperation in the field of Medicinal Plants.


    Major impact:


    Considering the fact that both countries having rich medicinal plants biodiversity and medicinal plants based indigenous traditional system of medicines and recognizing the existing friendly and cooperative relations, the proposed Agreement will further enhance bilateral cooperation between the two countries in the area of Medicinal Plants. This will be of immense importance to both countries. This Agreement will provide structured framework for cooperation between the two countries on Medicinal Plants.


    Implementation strategy and targets:


    The activities between the two Parties will start immediately after signing of the Agreement. The initiatives taken by the two countries will be in accordance with the terms of reference of the Agreement and will continue till the Agreement remains in operation.


    Expenditure involved:


    There is no additional financial implication involved. The financial resources necessary to conduct research, training courses, conferences / meetings will be met from the existing allocated budget and existing plan schemes of the National Medicinal Plants Board, Ministry of AYUSH.


    Background:


    India is one of the richest countries in the world in terms of biodiversity and more than 7000 species of plants are estimated to have medicinal usage in folk and documented systems of traditional medicines like Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha & Homoeopathy (AYUSH System of Medicine). The Republic of Peru is one of the Latin American Countries which are the biodiversity hotspots in the world and like India, Peru is also having rich biodiversity of medicinal plants and the medicinal plants based traditional medicine practices are prominently practiced by indigenous people.


    Considering the richness of medicinal plants biodiversity and uses of these resources in Indigenous Traditional Systems of medicines in both countries and to strengthen the bilateral cooperation, the proposed Agreement on cooperation, in the field of medicinal plants is envisaged.


    *****


    VRRK/PK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583304) Visitor Counter : 262
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil , Kannada