      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      The Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Shri Ram Vilas Paswan launches National Lab Directory
      Posted On: 30 AUG 2019 9:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Shri Ram Vilas Paswan today launched the National Lab Directorywhich is a one-stop-shop for all testing needs of the industries, academia, researchers and other stakeholders who need to get their Testing Facilities accredited / certified / recognised. Shri Paswan expressed happiness that BIS has been setting good standards which match the global benchmark. He said that 4500 labs have now been linked through this directory, which will provide one stop shop for testing where products can also be seen.


    Shri Paswan stated that soon a meeting shall be called to hold detailed discussions to ensure better compliance for standards and work on how further developments can be made in this field. Talking about plastic reduction Shri Paswan said alternatives should be found and we should become leaders using ‘make in india’ and we should see how we can take a lead in this field.


    The National Lab Directory presently encompasses NABL accredited, BIS Recognised/Empanelled Labs, Hallmarking Labs. The labs which are recognised/notified by FASAI, APEDA, EIC, can also be indicated accordingly. All testing facilities for various labs can be searched by Products, IS standards, etc. Besides intelligent search cutting across various databases interlinked through APIs, there is an interactive Geographical Information System and Drill Down Dashboard. This Directory will benefit all stakeholders such as manufacturers, consumers, regulatory agencies, government and research institutions in identifying the test facilities that are required for assessing conformity of relevant products or in testing for the purpose of research and development.


    Shri Paswan also launched a re-engineered CRSBIS Portal. The Testing Facilities are being completely digitised so as to make these objective & free from the existing Doc & PDF files. The process of submission of samples and request/ approval of registration for IT and Solar Products has been re-engineered to expedite and facilitate the process of registration with BIS.


    Public web interface and app have also been developed for Manak-Onlineto check genuineness of a BIS Licence / Registration of a product. The search can be by way of license number/ registration number and also by product or group of products.


    *****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583715) Visitor Counter : 729
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi