      Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying

      Government is committed to double the income of the farmers: Shri Giriraj Singh
      
      Agriculture with animal husbandry is the key to increase the farmers’ income, Shri Giriraj Singh says

      Posted On: 14 JUL 2019 4:26PM by PIB Ahmedabad

    Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Shri Giriraj Singh said that Modi government is putting all its efforts to double the farmers’ income. For the first-time Animal Husbandry, fisheries and dairying are separated from the agriculture department for this purpose. His ministry is taking all necessary steps to help the farmers to adopt livestock farming along with traditional agriculture. Agriculture with animal husbandry is the key to increase the farmers’ income, the Minister said while addressing the media persons in Ahmedabad today.


    Shri Giriraj Singh said the government aimed to eliminate the Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) in the next five years, because of which farmers normallylose 30% of their profit. For this,the government is working on increasing the immunity, proper vaccination, etc., he added. Minister also said that the fund has been allotted to eradicate the brucellosisas well.


    Talking about the development and opportunities in the fisheries sector, Shri Giriraj Singh said that special fund has been allotted for ‘Pradhan Mantri Matsaya Sampada Yojana’ (PMMSY). The government is focusing on technology development for surveillance and security of fisherman and making them capable of deep sea fishing. Gujarat has a good opportunity in prawn export, he added.


    Focusing on the need for breed improvement, the Minister said that the government is exploring the embryo transplant and IVF techniques to improve the breed.


    Shri Giriraj Singh also held a meeting with the senior officials of the National Dairy Development Board and Amul Dairy in Ahmedabad today.


    J.Khunt


    

    
    (Release ID: 1578679) Visitor Counter : 74