      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Union MoS Dr Jitendra Singh and Shri Kiren Rijiju present awards on Teachers Day
      Posted On: 05 SEP 2018 4:48PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh has said the society bears collective responsibility towards imparting the right education to the children. Addressing the Teachers' Day function organised by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation here today, he exhorted the teachers to help mould the young minds as able and responsible citizens.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said the birth anniversary of Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan is an occasion for us to introspect whether we have sincerely followed the education policy charted out by the former philosopher-President. He said the teacher deserves the appropriate respect due to him/her.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said 70% of India’s population is upto 40 years of age and thus it is important to provide the right education to the children and youth. He said the Central Government under the leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has taken several steps to provide a level-playing field to fulfill the aspirations of our youth. This includes scrapping Interviews for recruitment to lower level posts in Government.


    Addressing the gathering, the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju said the concept of education is changing and we all are making efforts to fulfill the objectives set out by the Prime Minister, including the Swachh Bharat Mission. Saluting the teachers, he said they are the real nation builders, nurturing children into able and responsible citizens in the future.


    On the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh and Shri Kiren Rijiju gave away awards to 40 teachers and released the annual journal of the Education Department. The Mayor of North Delhi, Shri Adesh Gupta and other dignitaries were present.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1544994) Visitor Counter : 415
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi