      Ministry of Defence

      Parakram Parv Celebrations
      Posted On: 25 SEP 2018 5:14PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Armed Forces have always brought laurels to the Nation. Their contribution in war and peace are of immense value to every Indian.


    It is the contribution of our Armed Forces that we proudly celebrate Vijay Diwas, Kargil Vijay Diwas Day and many such battle honour days.


    Indian Army conducted surgical strikes in 2016 which had strategic ramifications and were aimed to dissuade inimical adversary from adopting the path of violence and to ensure an environment of peace for the Nation.


    To showcase the courage, valour and sacrifice of Armed Forces, ‘Parakram Parv’ is being observed from 28-30 September 2018. The main event is planned in India Gate Lawns, Rajpath, New Delhi. Similarly, 53 locations in 51 cities across the Nation shall be showcasing the events highlighting valour of Indian Armed Forces in general and Special Forces in particular.


    On Friday, 28 September 2018 Raksha Mantri Smt Nirmala Sitharaman will visit India Gate lawns, New Delhi to commemorate the inauguration of ‘Parakram Parv’ and will also interact with children. The programme will start with bugle call at 1830 hrs, thereafter, movies and photographs depicting valour & courage of the Armed Forces will be shown. Huge canvas/digital signing walls for sending messages to the soldiers will help citizens connect with them. Letters addressed to soldiers by school children will also be on the display. The event is open from 1100 hrs to 2200 hrs on Saturday and Sunday. Visitors will get the opportunity to see captured weapons used by terrorists that have been brought from Jammu & Kashmir. Military equipment like artillery guns and small arms will also be on display. On 29 and 30 September 2018 noted singers are scheduled to perform at the venue apart from the Military band.


    General public is encouraged to take selfies at all venues, including India Gate and post them on the social networking sites with #ParakramParv .


    Col Aman Anand


    PRO (Army)


    

    
    (Release ID: 1547203) Visitor Counter : 1213
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Malayalam