      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Newly Launched Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojna to Benefit More Than 3 Crore Insured Persons
      Posted On: 26 SEP 2018 1:59PM by PIB Delhi


    Around 3.2 crore Insured Persons (IPs) will benefit from newly launched scheme of ESIC ‘Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojna’. The ESI Corporation has approved ‘ ATAL BIMIT VYAKTI KALYAN YOJNA ’ for Insured Persons (IP) covered under the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948. This scheme is a relief payable in cash directly to the Bank Account in case of unemployment and while they search for new engagement . The cash benefit given to the unemployed persons searching for new employment will be 25 percent of his average earning of 90 days. Shri Gangwar was addressing on the occasion of 7 th National Conference on Security and Safety at Workplace and distribution of Safety Systems Excellence Awards in New Delhi today.


    Addressing the function, the Minister added that there are around six crores of workers in organized sector who are getting benefits of EPFO, ESIC and Social Security Schemes. The Union Government has taken many steps to enhance their working conditions, safety and social security in order to improve their standard of living. Present government is continuously making efforts to improve life conditions of around 40 crore workers of the unorganized sector also. In last two years nearly one crore workers have been linked with ESIC benefits and more than one crore have been brought in the fold of EPFO. Pradhan Mantri Jeewan Jyoti Beema Yojna and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Beema Yojna are totally free for unorganized workers. He further said that nearly 3 crore workers are benefitting from these Social Security Schemes.


    The honorarium of 14 Lakh Aanganwadi workers have been increased from Rs. 3,000 per month to Rs. 4,500 per month. Likewise, honorarium of Aanganwadi helpers has also been increased from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,250 per month. The incentive of AASHA workers has also been doubled, he added.


    Shri Gangwar further said that the Ministry is making efforts to increase employment opportunities through Pradhan Manrti Rojgar Protsahan Yojana. Twelve per cent of the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) contribution of new employees is being given by government so that employers may not have to bear this cost. The government has spent Rs. 1,744 crores for this EPF contribution for around 72 Lakh employees of nearly 87,000 organizations in last two years.


    The Minister congratulated all the winners of Safety Systems Excellence Awards and expressed hope that all the participants of this conference will gain from the ideas discussed on this forum.


    ****


    RDS/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547283) Visitor Counter : 2336
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Tamil