      PIB Headquarters

      The Grand Finale of Smart India Hackathon 2019 started at NIT Calicut
      Posted On: 02 MAR 2019 7:38PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The Grand Finale of Smart India Hackathon (SIH) 2019 started at National Institute of Technology, Calicut. 29 teams comprising 232 students along with their mentors from various institutions across India is participating to showcase their coding skills. NIT Calicut is one among the 48 nodal centres selected for hosting the event. During the inaugural function, Director NIT Calicut Prof. Sivaji Chakravorty welcomed the dignitaries and participants. Prof. Saji Gopinath, Director IIITMK Trivandrum and CEO- Kerala Start-up Mission was the chief guest of the function. NITC Registrar Lt. Col. Pankajakshan K and Dean (Students’ Welfare), Prof. S D Madhu Kumar were also present during the occasion.


    The Honourable Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri. Prakash Javadekar announced the opening of the Hackathon through video conferencing. He told that around 2 Lakhs students from across the country participated in the initial round of the event. The minister stressed that in this edition of SIH, experts from various Multi National Companies are also involved to supervise the students and to evaluate their skills. Chairman AICTE, Prof. Anil Sahasrabubhe and SIH organising committee co-chair Dr.Anand Deshpande addressed the participants through video conferencing. At NIT Calicut, students are working on problems related to Security and Surveillance, Healthcare and Biomedical devices, Clean Water etc. These problems are assigned by the MNCs – Infosys, Dell EMC, Goldman Sachs and Mathworks.


    Prime Minister Shri. Narendra Modi and the HRD Minister Shri. Prakash Javadekar will be interacting with the participants through video conferencing on March 2 nd evening. The 36 hours non-stop coding competition will conclude with a valedictory function on March 3 rd evening.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1567326) Visitor Counter : 5