      PIB Headquarters

      CMFRI expands wings to Lakshadweep
      Takes over administrative control of Lakshadweep KVK

      Posted On: 08 MAR 2019 11:44AM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram

    The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) expanded its wings to Lakshadweep islands with the institute taking over administrative control of the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) situated at Kavarathi Island. The CMFRI has drawn an action plan for activation of the KVK, which is aimed at facilitating the islanders efficiently tap its unique agricultural resources on the land and the sea for quality life in the islands. The KVK will focus on scores of objectives such as enhancing the agricultural productivity; increasing farmer’s income, generating employment opportunities to locals, especially women; boosting value added products by micro-enterprises; and facilitating market access on the strengths of its credentials, to list a few. An agricultural extension centre under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for linking the agricultural research institutions and the farmer, t he KVK will involve in various eco-labelling efforts for unique commodities of the Islands. This includes green certification of Lakshadweep coconut and MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) certification of tuna fisheries that will facilitate market advantage for these commodities from the islands.


    Consultative Meeting


    As a precursor to a full swing operation of the KVK, the CMFRI will convene a high-level consultative meeting on Saturday (March 9) to formulate a Perspective Plan for the functioning of the Kendra in the coming years. The meeting will be attended by Dr A K Singh, Deputy Director General (Extension) of the ICAR along with scientists of different institutions under the ICAR. Shri Damodhar A.T., I.F.S., Secretary (Agriculture) will lead the delegation of senior functionaries from the Lakshadweep Administration and the lead farmers of the islands. The meeting will identify priority areas for the KVK, considering the unique resource base of the islands and stakeholders’ perception. A road map for full realisation of the KVK’s potential to meet the set objectives will be made at the meeting. In addition, a three-day training on developing value added products from fish wastes will be held to the micro-enterprisers in the islands.


    To boost CMFRI’s role in Lakshadweep


    Taking over of the KVK would add impetus to the CMFRI’s interventions in the islands with the KVK forming the base for the operation of various activities of the institute, said Dr A Gopalakrishnan, Director of the CMFRI. “Historically, the CMFRI has been studying the fisheries and ecosystem of the islands ever since the institute was incepted, through focussed research projects and has been contributing to the steady development of the sector through science based management guidance”, he said.


    “The Lakshadweep islands are well known for its unique varieties of coconut and high value oceanic tunas as well as the eco-friendly approach for coconut cultivation and tuna fishing. The institute is running a range of research projects, including on coral reef associated marine biodiversity of the islands and fishery management plans for tuna, aimed at sustaining the ecosystem and the fisheries in Lakshadweep”, he added.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1568506) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam