      PIB Headquarters

      National level Vendor Development Programme Industrial Exhibition
      Posted On: 02 FEB 2018 6:05PM by PIB Chennai


    A national level Vendor Development Programme (VDP) cum Industrial Exhibition is being organized by MSME Development Institute, Government of India, Ministry of MSME, in the premises of the MSME DI at Guindy, Chennai, on 2 nd and 3 rd February 2017.


    Shri Dharmendra Pratap Yadav, Secretary, Department of MSME, Government of Tamil Nadu, inaugurated the exhibition in the presence of other dignitaries.


    Shri Cyril R. Fernandez, General Manager, BHEL, Ranipet, Shri V. Sridhar, General Manager, SIDBI, Shri Vidya Sagar Singh, Zonal General Manager, NSIC, Chennai, Shri Padmakumar, Regional Director, Indra Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research, Kalpakkam were the guests of honours.


    Shri S. Sivagnanam, Addl. Industrial Adviser, MSME Development Institute, Chennai , in his Key Note Address, emphasized that the objective of event was to popularize the implementation of the Public Procurement Policy (PPP) of Government of India. 6 National level VDPs and 21 State level VDPs have been organized by MSME DI, Chennai during the current financial year. PPP mandates that 20% of the annual requirement of products and services of the Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSE) and Government departments should be procured from Micro and Small Enterprises (MSE). A sub target of 4% should be procured exclusively from SC/ST entrepreneurs. Statistics showed that the average procurement from MSEs is 17% and a meager 1% from the SC/ST entrepreneurs. All out efforts are being made by Government of India through various agencies to create awareness among PSUs and SC/ST entrepreneurs to achieve the mandated 4% procurement. Shri Sivagnanam also spoke in detail about TRUE – Tribal, Rural and Urban employment generation and sought the cooperation of the Government of Tamil Nadu in the implementation of TRUE. Development of villages, employment creation, economic empowerment, promotion of modern technologies were the key components of TRUE. Thus, in a span of a year or two, Tamil Nadu would be a number one state in employment creation and inclusive growth. He sought special financial assistance of the Government of Tamil Nadu to foster the shortlisted 200 rural artisan clusters in Tamil Nadu.


    Shri Cyril R. Fernandes, General Manager, BHEL, Ranipet, in his special address, said that the turnover of BHEL was Rs.40,000 crore and the material cost was Rs. 24,000 crore and 20% of this to MSEs means Rs.4800 crore. MSEs could tap this opportunity by registering as vendors for BHEL. The achievement of BHEL in PPP was 28% and sadly the procurement from SC/ST entrepreneurs was 0.8% against the mandated 4%. The procurement process had been made online and transparent. Vendor registration had also been made online. He urged the entrepreneurs to be progressive and dynamic. MSEs were generators of income and employment. They should focus on quality, modern technology and think big. MSEs should be agile and diversify.


    Shri Padmakumar, Regional Director, IGCAR, Kalpakkam was proud to declare that IGCAR was a pioneer in the implementation of PPP. Technology was developed in house by IGCAR and transferred to entrepreneurs for implementation. He cited instances of MSEs which evolved as suppliers for IGCAR, thus reducing the cost of their requirements drastically. He invited the MSEs to join hands with the Government agencies in building a stronger India.


    Shri V. Sridhar, General Manager, SIDBI, Chennai elucidated the schemes of SIDBI viz. e-Discounting platform which is beneficial to the MSEs and PSUs. Reserve Bank of India had authorized 3 banks to operate the platform. SIDBI is also extending Term Loans at competitive rate of interest to MSEs of 25 sectors, under Make in India Loan for MSEs. He called upon the participants to make full use of the Udyamimitra portal. He also took note of the request of the Additional Industrial Adviser, MSME DI, Chennai, to devise a scheme for extending the Viability Gap Funding for the cluster development programme.


    Shri Vidya Sagar Singh, Zonal General Manager, NSIC, Chennai , opined that Single Point Registration Scheme was a window to the MSEs to the arena of big business with public sector undertakings. The Raw Material Distribution Scheme, Short term financial loans, Marketing Assistance Scheme and Tender Marketing Scheme of NSIC were beneficial to the MSEs and requested them to make use of the schemes. He also stressed the importance of GeM and Samadhaan Portals. NSIC was making all out efforts through the SC/ST Hub to catalyse the implementation of PPP viz. the 4% mandatory procurement from SC/ST entrepreneurs.


    Shri Dharmendra Pratap Yadav, Secretary, Department of MSME , Government of Tamil Nadu, in his inaugural address said that Tamil Nadu is the leader in entrepreneurship, number of MSMEs and per capita income. MSMEs are the focus and flavor for the Government of Tamil Nadu. Price Preference Policy was implemented in Tamil Nadu even prior to the Public Procurement Policy. Efforts are being taken to revive the Public Procurement Policy. The Service Sector in Tamil Nadu contributed up to 60% of the quantum in the country. MSMEs should adopt newer and efficient technologies. As the schemes and support systems are enormous in a great environment, entrepreneurs should innovate, explore and contribute to the development of the country. Sky is the limit. Entrepreneurs should be tech savvy to bring about innovation and excellence in their ventures. He acceded to the request of the Additional Industrial Adviser, MSME DI, Chennai, to draw the attention of the Government of Tamil Nadu, to formulate a Public Procurement Policy, on the lines of Government of India.


    A souvenir containing the details of the participating units, Government Schemes for MSMEs and the vendor registration process of the CPSUs was released on the occasion.


    200 MSMEs are participating in the exhibition. Technical seminars are being held to explain the vendor registration process of BHEL Trichy and Ranipet, Southern Railway, ONGC, HAL, BEL, NMDC, IGCAR, Engine Factory Avadi, Port of Chennai, HPCL, KVIC, Coir Board and NSIC today and tomorrow.


    ####

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518976) Visitor Counter : 171