      Ministry of Finance

      Optimal Balance Between Agronomization and Urbanization to Maximize Productivity Conference on Futuristic, Resilient and Digital Infrastructure Ahead of 3rdAnnual Meeting of Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB)
      Posted On: 03 MAY 2018 5:59PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Press Information Bureau


    Government of India,


    Bangalore


    ****


    Optimal Balance Between Agronomization and Urbanization to Maximize Productivity


    Conference on Futuristic, Resilient and Digital Infrastructure Ahead of 3rdAnnual Meeting of Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB)


    Bengaluru, May 3, 2018:


    The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), in association with the Ministry of Finance and Research and Information System for Developing Countries(RIS) organized a two-day conference on “Futuristic, Resilient and Digital Infrastructure” in the city today. It is a lead-up to the third Annual Meeting of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) hosted to be held on 25th & 27th June 2018 in Mumbai.


    Mr. Akira Matsunaga, Economist, Asian Development Bank(ADB) said that ADB in recent years has been a very active partner to enhance the infrastructure in Asia. There is a growing demand for improving infrastructure in South Asia, including water, waste water management and waste management, transportation among others. Rapid urbanization is a challenge and at the same time it is an opportunity because without successful urbanization no country can achieve sustainable development..


    Mr. Kirit Parikh, Chairman, Integrated Research and Action for Development, New Delhi said that infrastructure plays a very important role in a city’s resilience. Infrastructure is not just roads, powerlines and bus service, cities need to incorporate a level of anticipation in their infrastructure to overcome natural calamities and man-made disasters. We need a large database, ability to analyze big data and to disseminate information appropriately.


    Infrastructure is the major driver of the Indian economy. The sector is responsible for catapulting overall development. Scientific evidence on fast changing geo climatic conditions, development gaps among the vulnerable, adverse implications of resource intense development process, severity of pollution and climate change are pointing to a very alarming scenario. There is an immediate need to shift to futuristic and inclusive infrastructure said Shri. S Chandrasekhar, Past Chairman CII Karnataka and Managing Director, Bhoruka Power Corporation Ltd..


    The first day of the conference has seen delibrations by eminent speakers on State of Institutional Approaches for Futuristic, Resilient and Digital Infrastructure, Resilient Infrastructure and Disaster Preparedness, Future of Mobility and Multi-modal Transportation and Global Regimes and Industry Implications for Domestic Capacity.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531211) Visitor Counter : 45