      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports awards 2018-2022 broadcast rights of Khelo India School Games to Star Sports
      Posted On: 01 JAN 2018 1:40PM by PIB Delhi

      * Government of India has decided to award 2018-22 broadcast rights of Khelo India School Games (KISG) to Star Sports
      * Starting from 31st January 2018, these annual games will include a variety of sports – gymnastics, badminton, hockey and more.
      * Revamped Khelo India aims to inculcate a nationwide culture of sports through a grassroots sports revolution, and KISG is an important aspect of this strategy. This is in line with Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s vision for India’s youth.
      * A grassroots sports revolution will help India become a sporting powerhouse in the coming years
      * Major games from the event will be broadcast live on Star Sports and Hotstar

    In a pioneering partnership, Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports for its flagship initiative, Khelo India has chosen Star Sports – India’s leading sports broadcaster- as its broadcast and production partner for the forthcoming Khelo India School Games , 2018. Star Sports will hold the broadcast rights for the event until 2022.


    Objectives and vision:


    The revamped Khelo India was launched to achieve the twin objectives of broad basing of sports and achieving excellence in sports. In line with Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s vision, Khelo India aims to infuse a culture of sports at the grassroots level Such systematic pursuit of sports offers multiple opportunities, namely, holistic development of children and youth, community development, gender quality, a healthier nation, national pride and economic


    opportunities related to sport development. Khelo India will also will act as a catalyst to usher in a change in the mindsets of parents and teachers towards sports. Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports and Star Sports together intend to realize a shared vision of making 30 crore children of India play sports for at least an hour a day .


    Size and scale of the competition:


    Khelo India School Games, 2018 is the marquee event under revamped Khelo India porgramme. Khelo India School Games 2018 are being organized for under-17 group (Boys and Girls) from 31st Jan 2018 in 16 different Sports disciplines . The event is expected to host around 6000 athletes and officials in its first edition. The best talent selected through the competition will be amongst the 1000 (one thousand) budding athletes eligible for a scholarship worth 5 lakhs each per year for a period of eight years. Every year, new athletes will be added under the Khelo India scheme. Thus, over the period of the scheme, the country will have a solid bench-strength for all sports .


    The games will be conducted at par with international level competitions so as to give the best experience to players and other stakeholders. The format of the game will provide an opportunity for the State/UTs to compete against each other and provide a platform to showcase their best budding sporting talent.


    Khelo India is expected to announce its official partner shortly.


    Minister of State for YAS (I/C) on Khelo India School Games: -


    Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports (Independent Charge) Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore said , “After careful deliberation and following a transparent bidding process, we are delighted to announce that KHELO INDIA SCHOOL GAMES 2018 will be partnering with Star Sports for the broadcast of event. It will be the first time that school games will be broadcast LIVE simultaneously on TV and digital platform. Star Sports and HOTSTAR, with their vision of fostering a comprehensive, multi- sports ecosystem in India will be our ideal broadcast partners to help us realize the dream of transforming India into a global sporting powerhouse in the coming years.”


    He added, “With Khelo India, we seek to bring back active playtime in the lives of our children. Parents and teachers need to embrace sports and ensure that it is as essential a part of the everyday life of children as educational curriculum.”


    AD/ ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514846) Visitor Counter : 5701
    
    
    
    
    

*