      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Schemes For Children Born With Low Birth Weight
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2018 1:10PM by PIB Delhi


      Malnutrition including anaemia is a multifaceted, multidimensional and multi-sectoral problem. Malnutrition in pregnant women is one of the underlying causes of low birth weight (LBW) babies. As per Rapid Survey on Children (RSoC), 2013-14; 18.6% new-born had weight less than 2.5 Kg (out of those weighed).


      Ministry of Women & Child Development is implementing Anganwadi Services under the Umbrella ICDS Scheme. Under the Scheme, supplementary nutrition is provided to Pregnant Women and Lactating Mothers in order to bridge the nutritional gap in the intake as against the Recommended Dietary Allowances for Indians prescribed by the Indian Council for Medical Research.


      Under the National Health Mission (NHM) and within its umbrella the Reproductive & Child Health Programme , following interventions are provided to the pregnant mothers for addressing malnutrition:


      1. Universal screening of pregnant women for anaemia and Iron Folic Acid (IFA) supplementation.


      2. Calcium Supplementation in Pregnancy.


      3. Deworming in pregnancy.


      4. Weight gain monitoring.


      5. Counselling on nutrition, family planning and prevention of diseases.


      6. Under Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakaram (JSSK), Government of India is providing food to pregnant women during their stay at public health facility for delivery.


      7. Under the National Iron plus Initiative (NIPI), iron-folic supplementation for prevention and treatment of anaemia in a life cycle approach is provided to children, adolescents, women of reproductive age groups, pregnant women and lactating mothers.


      8. Health and nutrition education through IEC & BCC to promote dietary diversification, inclusion of iron folate rich food as well as food items that promotes iron absorption.


      The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


      *****


      MV/LK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1514950) Visitor Counter : 2360