      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Health Secretary launches the Allied Health Professionals Database Portal
      
      ‘More than 3000 professionals have already registered on the portal during the testing phase’: Ms. Preeti Sudan

      Posted On: 01 JAN 2018 5:33PM by PIB Delhi

    Ms. Preeti Sudan, Secretary, Health and Family Welfare launched the Allied and Healthcare Professionals’ database portal, here today, as part of Ministry’s commitment to ensure better systems and frameworks for the healthcare workforce in the country.


    At the launch, Ms. Sudan, said that India enjoys a demographic dividend of more than 65% youth below the age of 35 years and the Government of India is eager to provide the country’s youth a strong foundation for continued and sustainable growth. She stated that the country is facing increasing burden of lifestyle diseases and ailments, and needs better standards and appropriate frameworks for professionals providing health services to the population. Further, she highlighted that as an essential pre-requisite to achieve this, the Health Ministry aims to put in place a robust data repository of healthcare workers and further emphasized that unless the existing manpower capacity is mapped adequately, successful policies cannot be framed. She added that this portal is a provisional measure taken by the Ministry to track and reach out to all the allied and healthcare professionals in the country till such a time that a statutory body is established.


    More than 3000 professionals have already registered on the portal during the testing phase. The link to the website portal is a2hp.mohfw.gov.in.


    The portal has a capacity of capturing more than 10 lakhs Allied and Healthcare Professionals’ data. It will help the Government to track the number of professionals and streams of allied and healthcare professions in the country. It may further prove helpful in expediting the envisaged processes viz. licensing of professionals, workforce policy planning, and bringing transparency in the system by maintaining standards of educational and clinical practice etc. The Allied and Healthcare Professionals’ can visit the portal on the link mentioned above and provide basic personal, qualification and professional information, the portal will then send an auto-generated email to the registered email of the candidate for verification and will provide an enrolment reference number for further usage. The candidates can subsequently login to the portal using the credentials received in the email and edit the information, upload qualification degree etc.


    Also present at the event were Additional Secretary (Health) Sh. Sanjeeva Kumar and Joint Secretary Sh. Arun Singhal, among other officials and dignitaries from NIC at Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.


    *****


    MV/PP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514890) Visitor Counter : 2736