      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi to inaugurate tomorrow online portal ‘NARI’ for women empowerment
      
      e-Samvad portal for NGOs and Civil Societies to be also launched

      Posted On: 01 JAN 2018 4:54PM by PIB Delhi

    In a big leap forward to empower women, the Minister of Women & Child Development, Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi will inaugurate an online portal NARI in New Delhi tomorrow. Developed by the Ministry of Women & Child Development, the portal will provide women citizens with easy access to information on government schemes and initiatives for women. Further to provide a platform for NGOs and Civil Societies to interact with the Ministry of Women & Child Development, e-Samvad portal has also been developed which will be inaugurated by the WCD Minister. The Minister of State for Women & Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar will also remain present on the occasion.


    The Government – both Central and State – has implemented a number of schemes & legislations for women to provide them equal rights, economic opportunities, social support, legal aid, housing etc. However, there is often a lack of awareness of these provisions and difficulties in accessing their benefits. For example, many are unaware that One Stop Centres are available in 168 districts for women in difficult circumstances, PM Awas Yojana gives priority to registraton of homes in the name of women and many State Governments offer financial support for the education of girl children. However, information related to women centric schemes/legislations are all scattered on different websites/portals.


    In order to make this information more easily accessible in one place, the NARI portal summarizes over 350 government schemes and other important information for the benefit of women, with more being added everyday. It provides links to the Ministries, Departments and autonomous bodies offering these schemes as well as easy access to online applications and grievance redressal.


    NARI will provide information to women on issues affecting their lives. There are tips on good nutrition, suggestions for health check ups, information on major diseases, tips for job search and interview, investment and savings advice, information on crimes and against women and reporting procedures, contacts of legal aid cells, simplified adoption procedures and much more. It will endow women with the power of information to build their life skills and facilitates them in taking full advantage of the services provided by the Government for them.


    Through e-Samvad portal , NGOs and civil society can provide their feedback, suggestions, put up grievances, share best practices etc. Senior Officers within MWCD will be able to view the inputs/suggestions received for their concerned subject areas and appropriately respond to NGOs. This will help in formulation of effective policies and measures for welfare of women and children.


    Empowerment and welfare of women and children is top priority of the government, NARI and e-Samvad portals are initiatives in this direction.


    * * *


    NB/UD
    

    
    (Release ID: 1514880) Visitor Counter : 6736