      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways conceives to deploy “Drone” cameras in all its Zones/Divisions to enhance safety and efficiency in train operations.
      
      It will help in various activities especially project monitoring and maintenance of tracks and other railway infrastructure.
      
      West Central Railways has become the first Zonal Railway to procure “Drone” cameras in Indian Railways.
      Posted On: 08 JAN 2018 1:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Railways has decided to deploy “ Drone” cameras (UAV/NETRA) for various railway activities especially project monitoring and maintenance of tracks and other railway infrastructure. It has been given directions to Zonal Railways to procure such cameras. This is in-line with Railways’ desire to use technology to enhance safety and efficiency in train operations.


    “Drone” cameras shall be deployed to undertake monitoring activities of relief and rescue operation, project monitoring, progress of important works, conditions of track and inspection related activities. It shall also be used to assess preparedness of Non-Interlocking (NI) works, crowd management during fairs and melas, to identify scrap and also for aerial survey of station yards. It is going to be instrumental in providing real time inputs related to safety and maintenance of tracks and other railway infrastructure.


    Under this initiative, West Central Railways with headquarter at Jabalpur (M.P) has become the first Zonal Railway to procure “ Drone” cameras in Indian Railways. West Central Railways has already done a trial-run of those cameras last week on its all the three divisions in the following locations.

     1. Jabalpur Division – Narmada Bridge near Bhitoni
     2. Bhopal Division – (i) Nishatpura Yard; (ii) Third Line work between HBJ – Misrod.
     3. Kota Division – (i) Chambal Bridge near Kota; (ii) Dakania Talav Yard near Kota.

    WCR further plans to use Drone for project monitoring in 3 rd line work of Bina-Katni, Doubling work in Katni-Singrouli, Important Bridge inspections and Mansoon preparedness in deep cutting portions of Ghat Sections of Bhopal and Jabalpur Divisions. Earlier, demonstration of “ Drone” camera was done for project monitoring of Railway Electrification work of Jabalpur Yard.


    *****


    AKS/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1515897) Visitor Counter : 29999
    
    
    
    
    

3.