      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Pension related complaints
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2018 4:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Public and pension matter grievances received are generally related to various service issues. Pension grievances relate to non-payment/delay in payment of pensionary benefits, delay in revision of pension/family pension etc. All such grievances are required to be redressed in a decentralized manner by the Ministries/ Departments concerned as per work allocation under the Allocation of Business Rules, 1961. Grievances relating to State Governments are forwarded to them for appropriate action.


    As per the guidelines issued by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, any grievance, including a pension grievance, is required to be redressed within a period of 2 months by the concerned Ministry/Department/Organization to which it pertains and in case it is not possible, an interim reply with reasons for delay is required to be provided.


    Grievance disposal is monitored through review meetings with the representatives of Central Ministry/Department/Organisation. Reviews of grievances of Ministries/Departments are also undertaken every month during meetings conducted on PRAGATI (Pro-Active Governance And Timely Implementation) platform. An Electronic Dashboard for Secretaries has been created showing the consolidated status of grievances disposed and pending on CPGRAMS. Weekly reminders through SMS are also sent for pending grievances.


    When an official is allocated the work of redress of grievances, it is part of his/her responsibility, and action, if required, can be taken against the erring officials for dereliction of duties as per the relevant Service Rules.


    This was stated by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh in a written reply to question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    PK/SS/RS/LS-2719

    
    
    (Release ID: 1515262) Visitor Counter : 376