      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      206 master trainers have been trained under the programme for training and capacity building of Women Elected Representatives
      Posted On: 04 JAN 2018 4:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Government of India has decided to expand Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme (BBBP) in all 640 districts (as per census 2011). Currently, BBBP scheme is being implemented in 161 districts with low CSR across the country. It aims to address the issue of declining Child Sex Ratio (CSR) through a mass campaign across the country targeted at changing societal mindsets and creating awareness about the criticality of the issue. It is a tri-ministerial initiative of Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and Ministry of Human Resource Development. BBBP Scheme covers rural women as well as urban.


    Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) scheme envisages capacity building, training & sensitization of functionaries and stakeholders to orient and sensitize them on the critical issue of Child Sex Ratio (CSR). Ministry of Women and Child Development through National Institute for Public Cooperation & Child Development (NIPCCD), has conducted a series of Capacity-building programmes and Trainings for 1664 Master Trainers in 18 training programmes for further strengthening and capacity building of district level officials and frontline workers covering all States/UTs .


    Apart from the above, a programme is on for proper training and capacity building of Women elected representatives. In first batch of such training, 206-master trainers have been trained through NIPCCD representatives of 12 states to further impart training and sensitize at Village/Panchayat/Taluka level.


    BBBP Scheme is a tri-ministerial, convergent effort of Ministries of Women and Child Development, Health & Family Welfare and Human Resource Development, with a focus on awareness and advocacy campaign to change mindsets, enforcement of Pre-Conception & Pre Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC&PNDT) Act, enabling girl child’s survival, safety, and insuring her education.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Women and Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ******


    NB/UD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1515490) Visitor Counter : 649