      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Promotion of Tribal Art and Culture
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2018 4:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Tribal Affairs is implementing a Central Sector Scheme ‘Support to Tribal Research Institutes (TRIs), under which financial assistance is provided to TRIs to carry out various activities to preserve and promote tribal culture across the country through research and documentation, maintenance and preservation of art & artifacts, setting up of tribal museum, exchange visits for the tribals to other parts of the State, organizing tribal festivals etc. Further, Ministry of Tribal Affairs has developed a web page for use as tribal repository (www.tribal.nic.in/repository) in which documents, folks songs, photos, videos etc. received from the State Government have been uploaded. State Government has been asked to provide database of Tribes of India including their evolution, place of origin, lifestyle, eating habits, architecture, education level, traditional art, folk dances and other anthropological details for uploading on the webpage. During the current year the budget of TRI Scheme has been enhanced from Rs.21.00 Crore 2016-17 to Rs.80.00 Crore in 2017-18.


    “The Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India Limited (TRIFED), a multi-state Cooperative Society under the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, is promoting and marketing tribal products, tribal art and crafts within the country and abroad by providing marketing support to tribal products through its network of retail outlets “Tribes India”. Besides this, it also provides e-commerce platforms to the tribal artisans to sell their products. TRIFED has entered into agreements with e-commerce platforms like Snapdeal and Amazon who will offer their customers various tribal products and produce through their portals www.snapdeal.com and www.amazon.com respectively to facilitate online sale. On the request of the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Ministry of Commerce has also made provision for sale of Tribal products through TRIFED on www.gem.gov.in .”


    This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Jaswantsinh Sumanbhai Bhabhor in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha.


    ****


    MKV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1515001) Visitor Counter : 1152