      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Manipur to host prestigious Indian Science Congress: Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2018 7:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Manipur Central University, Imphal will host the prestigious 105 th Indian Science Congress from March 18 to 22 this year.


    This was stated by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh, after a meeting with the Governor of Manipur, Dr. Najma Heptulla here today to discuss the arrangements for the upcoming conference.


    While assuring Dr. Heptulla that the Ministry of DoNER will work out the feasibility and the extent of possible support from the DoNER Ministry for organizing the conference, Dr. Jitendra Singh congratulated the Governor for the first-ever such meet being organized in Manipur.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh also shared with the Governor the details of the proposed Sports University near Imphal, which will be the first-of-its-kind in the region. He said the land has already been acquired for the purpose and effort is being made to seek time from the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for laying the foundation stone which will carry a special significance because the announcement for such a University was made by the Prime Minister himself, considering the need to groom the huge talent for sports and athletics in the region.


    In another significant development, Dr. Jitendra Singh informed the Governor that an exclusive "Hill Area Development Programme" has been approved to ensure equitable development of all the districts and the pilot project will be undertaken in Manipur. The work on setting up of a double broad-gauge rail track in the State is also being expedited, he added.


    The Governor thanked Dr. Jitendra Singh for his constant cooperation and follow-up of different State related issues and said she would soon be sending some more proposals for his perusal in the Ministry of DoNER.


    ******


    PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1515118) Visitor Counter : 1568