      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Use of Technology to Optimise Police Functioning
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2018 5:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Although ‘Police’ and ‘Public Order’ are State subjects, the Government of India has taken a number of initiatives in the last three years for encouraging use of technology to optimize functioning of State police.


    Under the scheme of Modernisation of Police Force (MPF), States have been provided central assistance for acquiring advanced weaponry such as AK-47 and INSAS Rifles, police equipment such as CCTV surveillance system, modern communication equipment, and state-of-the-art equipment for State Intelligence Branches and State Forensic Science Laboratories.


    By way of Crime and Criminals Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) project, the processes of crime registration, investigation, prosecution, etc., in police station are being computerized. The various benefits of CCTNS are now available to State Police Forces. The DIGITAL POLICE POROTAL launched by the Government of India, on 21.08.2017, provides facility to police officers for the purpose of investigation, policymaking, data analytics and research through national database of crime record.


    The Government of India is also implementing a central sector project namely, Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) across the country with a view to supplement the efforts of the States/UTs to establish a standardized and reliable emergency response system across the country to effectively deal with emergency/distress calls relating to medical, fire and police emergencies etc. with a special emphasis on distress calls from women and children. It is proposed to provide them necessary funding and policy level guidance for achieving the objectives and for setting up of Emergency Response Centers (ERCs). A pan-India single emergency response number ‘112’ has already been put in place across the country. Out of the total approved outlay of the project of Rs. 321.69 crore, an amount of Rs. 266.63 crore has been released during the years 2016-17 and 2017-18 to majority of States/UTs, which are in process of setting up of their Emergency Response Centres.


    States have been sensitized for encouraging use of technology from time to time. This has also been through issuance of guidelines, convening of meetings and various communications made to the States. While approving Sates Action Plans under MPF scheme, the High Powered Committee, which approves these Plans, also guides States regarding improved technologies and equipment which States can acquire.


    The amount earmarked and released for the above purposes in the current year budget are as below:-


    (figures in Rs. Crore)

                                                                                                                                                                      
S.No.  Name of the Scheme / Project                                                                                                           Allocation (BE)  Release
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
1.     Scheme of Modernisation of Police Forces (approved for continuance in the name of “Assistance to States for Modernisation of Police”)  769.00 crore     130.40 
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
2.     Crime and Criminals Tracking Networking Systems                                                                                        31.00            4.82   
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
3.     Emergency Response Support System                                                                                                      84.40            48.66  
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      

    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in a written reply to question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    PK/SS/JS/1847


    

    
    (Release ID: 1515300) Visitor Counter : 1091