      Ministry of Defence

      VP Says NCC Fosters Feeling of Camaraderie and Patriotism
      Posted On: 06 JAN 2018 5:04PM by PIB Delhi


    Vice President Shri Venkaiah Naidu formally inaugurated the National Cadet Corps (NCC) Republic Day Camp (RDC) 2018 here today. In his address, the Vice President complimented the efforts of National Cadet Corps, the largest uniformed youth organisation of the world in grooming the youth of the country and its contribution towards ‘Nation Building’.


    Speaking about the RDC that highlights essence of universal brotherhood transcending through national and international boundaries, the Vice President said, “The very ambience of this camp fosters the feeling of camaraderie and patriotism. This Camp will be a memorable motivating and learning experience for each one of you. It will give you an opportunity to interact with cadets not only from other parts of the country, but also from friendly foreign countries who will be arriving during the course of this camp. This will be a unique opportunity not only to understand your country better, but also to widen your horizon and foster lasting friendship with fellow cadets from other nations.”


    He also mentioned that NCC is and would be in the vanguard of all activities helping to channelise our youth into a creative force to usher in social changes through a wide spectrum of activities. Shri Naidu said NCC is a shining example of National Integration and called the cadets the pillars of the Nation. He expressed his happiness that cadets have been contributing immensely towards Swachhta Abhiyan with almost 10 Lakh cadets participating in various related events since its inception.


    He also appreciated the impressive turnout of the ‘Guard of Honour’. He urged the NCC cadets to avail the best of NCC training and be more responsible and empowered citizens of the country. Earlier, the Vice President was received by the DG NCC Lt Gen BS Sahrawat on his arrival.


    In all 2,070 cadets, including 695 girls drawn from 29 States and seven Union Territories (UT) of the country are participating in this camp that culminates into the Prime Minister’s Rally on January 28, 2018. The cadets attending the camp would be participating in a number of activities, like cultural programmes, national integration awareness and institutional training competitions.


    A contingent of smartly turned out NCC cadets drawn from all the three wings of the Army, Navy and Air Force, presented a ‘Guard of Honour’ to Shri Naidu on his arrival. He also visited the Flag Area where he was briefed by the young cadets about their respective States and regions on themes contributing towards national awareness and integration. He appreciated the efforts displayed in the Flag Area. A spectacular ‘cultural programme’ by the talented cadets was also organised in the NCC auditorium later.


    NAo/Nampi/DK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1515797) Visitor Counter : 1128