      AYUSH

      Celebration of 2nd Ayurveda Day
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2018 5:10PM by PIB Delhi


    2 nd Ayurveda Day was celebrated on 16 th & 17 th October, 2017 with the theme of “Ayurveda for Pain Management”. On 16 th October, 2017, One day National Seminar on “Ayurveda for Pain Management” and “AYUSH–CII Industry Conclave” in which the central theme was developing strategies to facilitate the growth of Ayurveda’s market size were held at India Habitat Centre, New Delhi. Approximately 500 delegates participated in the Seminar. The main function of Ayurveda Day was celebrated at All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA), Sarita Vihar on 17 th October, 2017 and AIIA was dedicated to the nation. Approximately 1500 delegates participated in the event.


    Aspects related to Pain Management through Ayurveda and how to promote Ayurveda Market in coming years were discussed. The Ministry developed the “Ayurvedic Standard Treatment Guidelines” which were released on this occasion. A short film on scientific relevance of Ayurveda was screened and National AYUSH Morbidity & Standardized Terminologies Portal (NAMSTP) was also launched on this occasion.


    Ministry of AYUSH, Govt. of India has setup Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences for undertaking coordinating formulating, developing and promoting research on scientific lines in Ayurvedic sciences through medicinal plant research (Medico-ethno botanical survey, pharmacognosy and tissue culture), Drug Standardization Pharmacological Research, Clinical Research Literary Research and Documentation. The activities of the Council are carried out through 30 institutes/ Centres/ Units located all over India and also through collaborative studies with various universities, hospitals and institutes.


    The Ministry of AYUSH has been implementing AYUSH intervention in NPCDCS for prevention and control of Non Communicable diseases in 01 district each of 06 states viz Surendra Nagar (Gujarat), Bhilwara (Rajasthan), Gaya (Bihar), Lakhimpur Kheri (Uttar Pradesh.), Krishna District (Andhra Pradesh.) & Darjeeling (West Bengal), Ayurveda intervention is being implemented in three districts, Unani in 01 district and Homeopathy in 02 districts. Ministry of AYUSH launched Mission Madhumeha on the 1 st Ayurveda day which was celebrated on 28.10.2016. The Ministry also developed protocol for prevention and control of Diabetes through Ayurveda and it was released on the occasion of the 1 st Ayurveda Day.


    Under the IEC Scheme, the Ministry takes up initiatives for propagation and promotion of AYUSH systems of medicine including Ayurveda by organizing Arogya Fairs/Melas, Ayurveda Parv, Conferences, Exhibitions, Seminars, Workshops, Symposium and also undertakes publicity through electronic multimedia, print media campaigning for awareness amongst the citizens all over the country.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/UD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1515010) Visitor Counter : 1278