      Ministry of Shipping

      Shri Mansukh Mandaviya visits Lakshadweep Islands
      
      Holds meeting with officials of Lakshadweep Administration, Cochin Shipyard Ltd. and Andman Lakshadweep Harbor Works

      Posted On: 08 JAN 2018 6:06PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Chemicals & Fertilizers held a meeting with the senior officials of Lakshadweep Administration, Cochin Shipyard Ltd. and Andman Lakshadweep Harbor Works today. The Minister is on a 2 days visit to Lakshadweep Islands. Shri Mandaviya expressed full support to Cochin Shipyard’s project of building new 500pax and 250 pax passenger vessels for Lakshadweep. He also pointed out to the UT Administrator that Lakshadweep administration is not utilizing their share of Central Road Fund for many years. He promised that if they send a proposal, a fund of Rs. 2 Crore for Road Development will be sanctioned within 15 days.


    Cochin Shipyard Ltd. and Lakshadweep Administration signed an MoU for financial support under “Swachh Bharat” Abhiyan. Shri Mandaviya handed over a cheque of Rs. 1 Crore to the Administrator of Lakshadweep for building of toilets under ODF Scheme as a part of CSR activity of Cochin Shipyard Ltd.


    The Minister also talked about the implementation of flag ship scheme of his ministry – Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana with the objective to provide affordable and quality medicines to all sections of the society at less than 50% price of the branded medicines. The Ministry is providing financial assistance of Rs. 2.5 lakh for opening Jan Aushadhi Store under the scheme, apart from providing 20% of the total sales to the store owner on regular basis. He further informed that any individual, NGOs, co-operatives or any other state government agencies can apply under this scheme at www.janaushadhi.gov.in .


    Shri Mandaviya also visited the ongoing activities of ALHW, Lighthouse and Paradise Island along with the UT Administrator.


    *****


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1515949) Visitor Counter : 1626