      AYUSH

      CCRH Signed Nine MoUs with different countries in last two year to Popularize Homoeopathy: Shri Shripad Naik
      Posted On: 05 JAN 2018 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


    Central Council for research in Homoeopathy (CCRH), an autonomous body under the Ministry of AYUSH has signed nine (09) Memorandums of understanding and one letter of intent with different countries for coordination/cooperation in homoeopathy system of medicine/ R & D in homoeopathy.


    Details of Exchange of information and technical experts:-

     1. Federal University of Rio De Janerio (Brazil) [July 2017]
     2. Scientific Society for Homoeopathy (WissHom) (Germany) [June 2017]
     3. Institute for the history of medicine, Robert Bosch foundation (Germany) [June 2017]
     4. Universidad Maimonides (Argentina) [Aug 2016]
     5. Yerevan State Medical University, Government of Armenia (Armenia) [Apr 2016]
     6. College of Homeopaths of Ontario (Canada) [April 2016]
     7. Royal London Hospital for Integrated Medicine (United Kingdom) [Nov 2015]
     8. Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States, University of Mississippi, USA[ Oct 2015]
     9. National Centre for Natural Products Research (USA)[Oct 2015]
    10. Letter of intent with Instituto Politecnico Nacional through the Escuela Nacional De Medicina Y Homeopatia (Mexico)[Oct 2012]

    The demand and popularity of Homoeopathy has risen in the country. There is 49% rise in the foot fall of patients to the Outpatient departments seeking homoeopathic treatment at the institutes/units under Central Council for research in Homoeopathy (CCRH), an autonomous body under the Ministry of AYUSH, from 2012-13 to 2016-17. Cooperation with foreign countries in the field of Homoeopathy has enhanced the popularity and acceptance of Homoeopathy in many countries of the world. Signing of MoUs with foreign countries/foreign universities has paved way for:

     1. undertaking collaborative research in the field of Homoeopathy with foreign universities;
     2. setting up of Homoeopathy Chair in foreign universities;
     3. exchange of knowledge and experts between the two countries;
     4. mutual recognition of pharmacopoeia of two countries.

    The steps taken by the Ministry of AYUSH to popularize homeopathy in the Country and in foreign countries are as follows:-

      * The Ministry of AYUSH under International Co-operation Scheme of the Ministry undertakes various measures through participating in International exhibitions/ conferences/ workshops/ seminars/ road shows/ trade fairs, etc. for generating awareness.

      * Under the Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Scheme, the Ministry takes up initiatives for propogation and promotion of AYUSH systems of medicine by organizing Arogya fairs/Melas, Conferences, Exhibitions, Seminars, Workshops, Symposium and also undertakes publicity through electronic multimedia and print media campaigning for awareness amongst the citizens all over the country.


      * Government of India is implementing Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) for popularization of AYUSH systems of medicine including Homoeopathy in the country.


    Following MoUs have been signed by the Ministry of AYUSH in the field of Traditional systems of medicine including Homoeopathy:

     1. The Ministry of AYUSH has signed Country to Country MoUs for Cooperation in field of Traditional Medicine including Homoeopathy with many countries including Bangladesh, Trinidad & Tobago, Mauritius, Mongolia, etc.

     1. MoU for establishment of Academic Chair in Homoeopathy has been signed with Yerevan State Medical University YSMU, Armenia.


    III. MoUs for undertaking Collaborative Research in the field of Homoeopathy have been signed with following foreign Universities/ Institutes:-

     1. Royal London Hospital for Integrated Medicine, UK.
     2. College of Homoeopathy (COH), Ontario.
     3. University of Maimonides, Argentina.
     4. Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia Convention of the United States (HPCUS).
     5. Scientific Society for Homoeopathy (WissHom), Germany.
     6. Federal University of Rio De Janerio- UFRJ.

    IV. MoU for cooperation in the field of development of museum on AYUSH system and archives on homoeopathy has been signed with Institute for the History of Medicine, Robert Bosch Foundation, Stuttgart, Germany.


    As of now, 28 Information Cells have been set up in 25 countries to disseminate authentic information about AYUSH systems of medicine including Homoeopathy.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1515722) Visitor Counter : 1288
    
    
    
    
    

6.