      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Creation of Separate Fund for Inter-Linking of Rivers
      Posted On: 04 JAN 2018 3:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Perspective Plan (NPP) was prepared by the then Ministry of Irrigation, now Ministry of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation (MoWR, RD & GR) in August 1980 for water resources development through inter basin transfer of water, for transferring water from water surplus basins to water-deficit basins. Under the NPP, the National Water Development Agency (NWDA) has identified 30 links (16 under Peninsular Component & 14 under Himalayan Component) for preparation of Feasibility Reports (FRs). The Pre-Feasibility Report (PFR) of the all 30 links have been prepared and circulated to the concerned State Governments by the NWDA. After survey and investigations, Feasibility Reports of 14 links under Peninsular Component and Feasibility Reports of 2 links and draft Feasibility Reports of 7 links (Indian portion) under Himalayan Component have been completed.


    Presently, the survey, investigation and preparation of Pre-Feasibility Report (PFR)/ Feasibility Report (FR)/ Detailed Project Report (DPR) is being funded through River Basin Management scheme of MoWR, RD & GR. This Ministry has constituted a Group on Financial Aspects on 12.09.2017 under Task Force for Interlinking of Rivers (ILR) to consider the financial aspects of ILR projects and to suggest the funding pattern for implementing the same. Three meetings of the Group on Financial Aspects has been held on 24.10.2017, 17.11.2017 and 08.12.2017 respectively.


    Funds are being released to Indirasagar Polavaram Project through Long Term Irrigation Fund, which has been created through National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development for funding Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana projects. Polavaram Project has provision of diversion of 80 TMC of water from Godavari Basin to Krishna Basin. The Right Main Canal of Polavaram Irrigation Project is proposed as lined canal, runs for a length of 174 km for diverting 80 TMC Godavari water to Krishna river upstream of Prakasam Barrage through the existing Budameru Diversion Channel. The canal is also contemplated to irrigate 1.29 lakh ha of ayacut (3.2 lack acre) in West Godavari and Krishna districts. Polavaram Poject has been declared as National Project by the Central Government.


    The Government of Andhra Pradesh has taken up Pattiseema Lift Scheme to achieve early benefits of Polavaram Irrigation Project in order to utilize the flood waters going waste into the sea. The Pattiseema Lift Scheme is envisaged to utilize the already existing Polavaram Right Canal by lifting 240 Cumecs (8500 Cusecs) of water from Akhanda Godavari Right Bank on downstream side of Polavaram dam site near Pattisam village and dropping into Polavaram Right Canal at chainage 1.50 km. The main aspect of the Lift Scheme is to transfer 80 TMC of water into Krishna River by interlinking through Polavaram Right Canal.


    The Pattiseema Lift Scheme work is completed and water is being drawn from Polavaram Right Canal from the year 2015-16 onwards.


    This information was given by Union Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    Samir/SKP/IA/JK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1515454) Visitor Counter : 2466