      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      3rd Meeting of Council of Trade Development and Promotion held in New Delhi Today
      Posted On: 08 JAN 2018 7:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Commerce & Industry Shri. Suresh Prabhu chaired the 3 rd meeting of the Council of Trade Development and Promotion in New Delhi today. Speaking on the occasion he called upon states to explore ways of tapping into global trade pegged at 5 trillion dollars by promoting services exports, organic farming, value addition to agricultural products, utilisation of the benefits accorded to the SEZs and creating employment.


    Shri Prabhu stressed on the importance creating an enabling environment for promoting exports. He said there was a need to develop state and district level strategies. Districts should be the new units of growth and planning should be done around this, he added. The Minister further said that a new agricultural exports policy is required that lays focus on increasing exports of value-added agricultural products so that farmers can access international markets and increase their income.


    Shri Prabhu released a study “LEADS-Logistics Ease Across Different States” which is a first ever sub-national logistics performance index. He also released the “State Exports Booklet” which is a compendium, of the status of exports from the States over the last 10 years.


    Also speaking on the occasion, the Minister of State for Commerce and Industry urged the Members of the Council that there was a need to jointly address impediments in trade and the logistic and infrastructure gaps which affect India’s exports.


    The Chief Minister of Goa, Deputy Chief Minister of Gujarat, Ministers from 11 states, senior state government officials and industry bodies attended the meeting.


    Shri. Manohar Parikkar, Chief Minister, Goa said that all states need to prioritise exports by drafting an export policy and to look at the primary, manufactures and deemed exports to achieve their full potential. He drew attention to the imposition of the 5% duty on import of raw cashew.


    Shri. Nitin Bhai Patel, Dy. Chief Minister, Gujarat said that frequent changes in the export regulations cause hardship to exporters as this renders existing contracts in-fructuous. He echoed the sentiment of providing agri product exporters subsidy on the lines of MSP support provided to farmers.


    Shri Amar Nath Reddy, Minister (I&C), Andhra Pradesh sought the support from the centre for resolving issues relating to the pharmaceutical sector which are major exports from the state and a facilitation centre to increase the exports from the state.


    Shri Prem Kumar, Minister (Agriculture), Bihar requested that the centre should support creation of Export Infrastructure like ICD, support the promotion of agricultural exports and the value addition.


    Sh..Chander Mohan Patowary, Minister from Assam mentioned the possibilities of the north eastern states being positioned as the gateway to the ASEAN market, specially for IT/ITeS due to its proximity to these countries.


    Shri Chander Prakash, Minister (Industries), J&K requested the setting up of industries related to railways and defence in the state.


    Shri Prafulla Samal, Minister (MSME, W&CD and SSE&PD), Odisha stressed that all the states are to be provided an equal support in the promotion of exports. He requested the creation of export infrastructure like cargo complex and stationing of the concerned authorities.


    Shri Satish Mahana, Minister (Ind. Dev. Deptt.), UP highlighted the achievements of the Government in creation of infrastructure which would promote exports from the state.


    Shri Amar Aggarwal, Minister (I&C), Chattisgarh mentioned that efforts are being made in the state to promote export of forest products which should be supported by the centre.


    Shri C.P. Singh, Minister (Urban Dev. & Housing Deptt.), Jharkhand requested the increased presence of the Councils in the State to guide exporters and mentioned the initiatives being taken up by the state in promoting exports by setting up a free trade zones and a power SEZ.


    Shri R.V. Deshpande, Minister (Large & Medium Scale Industry), Karnataka mentioned that there was delay in refunds under the GST and that there is a need to unify the refund of commercial tax and duty drawback. He emphasised that states should look at promoting skills related to export industries.


    Shri Rajendra Shukla, Minister (Industries), Madhya Pradesh mentioned the additional incentives being provided by the state government to exporters. He mentioned that the state has identified logistics development as one of the growth sectors.


    Shri Madan Kaushik, Minister (Urban Development), Uttarakhand mentioned the need for strengthening of air cargo and trade infrastructure in the hill states and the NER. He sought the support of the centre for capacity building in the identification potential export commodities.


    ***


    NP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1515958) Visitor Counter : 4326