      Ministry of Railways

      Mission Raftar of Indian Railways
      Posted On: 05 JAN 2018 3:46PM by PIB Delhi


    With a view to increasing speed of trains in Indian Railways, ‘Mission Raftaar’ was announced in the Railway Budget 2016-17. The mission envisages a target of doubling of average speed of freight trains and increasing the average speed of all non-suburban passenger trains by 25 kmph in the next 5 years.


    Principal routes have been identified for raising of speed under Mission Raftaar. These are six routes on Golden Quadrilateral and diagonals namely, Delhi – Mumbai, Delhi – Howrah, Howrah- Chennai, Chennai – Mumbai, Delhi – Chennai and Howrah – Mumbai. These six routes carry 58% of freight traffic and 52% of coaching traffic with a share of only 16% of the network. Golden Quadrilaterals and its Diagonal routes have been prioritized for replacement of loco hauled short distance passenger trains by MEMUs/DEMUs having better acceleration and deceleration characteristics for fast pickup and braking.


    The present installed capacity of the two coach production units involved in manufacturing of Mainline Electric Multiple Unit( MEMU) and Diesel Multiple unit (DEMU) coaches are as under:-

                                                                           
Name of the Unit                        Present installed capacity (Annual)
                                                                           
                                                                           
                                                                           
Integral Coach Factory (ICF), Chennai.  1700 coaches                       
                                                                           
                                                                           
                                                                           
Rail Coach Factory(RCF), Kapurthala.    1500 coaches                       
                                                                           
                                                                           

    There is no specific capacity for manufacturing of DEMU and MEMU coaches. However, product mix of coaches i.e DEMUs, MEMUs, other self propelled coaches and passenger coaches etc is decided in annual Production Programme as per traffic requirements. These six routes would require about 1200 MEMU coaches and 200 DEMU coaches. DEMU/MEMU coaches to be inducted progressively on balance routes of the Indian Railways.


    This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha on 05.01.2018 (Friday).


    ****


    AKS/MKV/DK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1515655) Visitor Counter : 2467