      Department of Space

      Commercial Launching of Satellite
      Posted On: 04 JAN 2018 3:34PM by PIB Delhi


    As on date, Antrix Corporation Limited (Antrix), the commercial arm of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), has successfully launched 209 foreign satellites from 29 countries under a commercial arrangement.


    The names of the countries whose satellites have been successfully launched include viz. Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Republic of Korea, Singapore, Slovakia, Switzerland, Turkey, UAE, UK and USA.


    During the last three years, starting from April 2014 till March 2017, Antrix has earned revenue of approx. 107 Million Euros and 4.5 Million USD in Foreign Exchange.

                                                                                                                     
Year     Countries whose satellites were launched                                            Revenue earned by Antrix
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                     
2014-15  Canada, France, Germany, Singapore                                                  18 M Euro               
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                     
2015-16  Canada, Indonesia, Singapore, UK, USA                                               55 M Euro               
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                     
2016-17  Algeria, Canada, Germany, Indonesia, Israel, The Netherlands, Kazakhstan, UAE, USA  34 M Euro and 4.5 M USD 
                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                     

    Antrix Corporation Limited has enabled launches of satellites belonging to many companies of various countries under a commercial arrangement. Some of the companies with whom such commercial launch service arrangements were executed include viz. Airbus Defense & Space, France; Comdev Ltd, Canada; Space Flight Laboratories, Canada; Surrey Satellite Technology Limited (SSTL), UK; ST Electronics, Singapore; Innovative Space Logistics, The Netherlands; Planet Inc, USA; Tyvak Inc, USA and Spaceflight Industries, USA.


    This was stated by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh in a written reply to question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    PK/SS/2052

    
    
    (Release ID: 1515458) Visitor Counter : 1573