      Ministry of Defence

      NCC Camp for Republic Day Parade 2018 in Full Swing
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2018 5:22PM by PIB Delhi


    National Cadet Corps (NCC) Republic Day Camp (RDC) 2018 commenced at the Cariappa Parade Ground, Delhi Cantt on January 1, 2018. Director General National Cadet Corps (DG NCC) Lt Gen B S Sahrawat addressed the cadets and officials on the occasion and called upon all to derive a deep sense of purpose from each activity in the camp which is unique with no parallel.


    In all 2,070 cadets, including 695 girl cadets drawn from all 29 States and 07 Union Territories of the country, are taking part in this one month long camp. This also includes 102 cadets from Jammu and Kashmir and 162 cadets from North Eastern Region (NER). The cadets are selected through a tough selection process. The cadets attending the camp participate in a number of activities like cultural, national integration awareness programme and institutional training competitions. The camp will be visited by a large number of dignitaries including the Vice President, Prime Minister, Raksha Mantri, Raksha Rajya Mantri, Chief Minister of Delhi and the Chiefs of the Army, Navy and Air Force.


    The aim of the RDC is to enhance the self confidence of cadets, deepen their value systems and provide an exposure to the rich culture and traditions of our nation and the important events that take place in the National Capital during the run up for Republic Day. Projection of cherished ideals and capabilities of the cadets of the NCC is intrinsic. The camp portrays the reflection of ‘Mini India’.


    While speaking to the media, Lt Gen Sahrawat highlighted the major achievements of the NCC in youth and nation building, social awareness campaigns, community development, environment protection, sports and adventure.


    The cadets also carry out cleanliness drives and safe sanitation awareness campaigns under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. In the field of sports, the NCC has feather in the cap by reaching the finals of the prestigious Subroto Cup football tournament in the Junior Girls’ Category in 2017. He also apprised that in 2017, NCC conducted two mountaineering expeditions to Mt Ladakhi and Mt Jogin-111.


    He reiterated that NCC is dedicated to nation building by its untiring efforts and praised the efforts of all the cadets and staff for their dedication.


    NAo/Nampi/DK/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1515021) Visitor Counter : 446