      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Setting up of National Security Commission
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2018 5:11PM by PIB Delhi


    In pursuance of directions given by the Hon’ble Supreme Court for setting up a National Security Commission while adjudicating the PIL filed by Prakash Singh V/S Union of India and other concerning Police reforms, a Committee namely “Committee on National Security and Central Police Personnel Welfare (CNS & CPPW)” has been constituted for recommending the names of IPS officers to the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet for appointment at the level of Director General at the centre on 2 nd January, 2017. The composition of the Committee is as under:-

     1. Union Home Minister- Chairman
     2. National Security Adviser- Member
     3. Cabinet Secretary- Member
     4. Union Home Secretary- Member
     5. Director, Intelligence Bureau- Member

    Further, taking into consideration the seniority, service profile, suitability, availability of the officers and looking to the tenure of officers for the post, the Committee recommends names of the officers for appointment as Chief of Central Armed Police (CAPFs). All appointments of Director General in CAPFs is done on the basis of recommendations of the said Committee.


    Setting up Police Establishment Board is one of the directives given by the Hon’ble Supreme Court on 22 nd September, 2006 in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 310 of 1996 filed by Prakash Singh & others and UoI and others. A copy of the above judgement of the Hon’ble Supreme Court was sent to all State Government and Union Territories on 26 th September, 2006 for necessary action.


    Further, ‘Policed’ being a State subject in the seventh schedule to the Constitution of India, it is primarily the State Government which have to implement various police reforms measures. The Centre has been consistently persuading the States from time to time to bring the requisite reforms in the Police administration to meet the expectations of the people.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in a written reply to question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    PK/SS/JS/1843

    
    
    (Release ID: 1515295) Visitor Counter : 1531
    
    
    
    
    

5.