      Ministry of Railways

      New Catering Policy in Railways
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2018 4:30PM by PIB Delhi


    New Catering Policy issued on 27th February 2017 inter-alia stipulates that Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) has been mandated to carry out the unbundling by creating a distinction primarily between food preparation and food distribution on trains. In order to upgrade quality of food preparation, IRCTC is to set up new kitchens and upgrade existing ones. Zonal Railways are to manage minor static units (catering stall /milk stalls/ trolleys etc.) except base kitchens and kitchen units. Steps being taken to ensure that good quality and hygienic food is served to the passengers as per prescribed rate inter-alia include (i) optional catering service has been introduced as a pilot project, on 32 Rajdhani/Shatabdi/Duronto trains under the management of IRCTC w.e.f. 01.08.2017 for an initial period of 180 days. (ii) Introduction of station based E-Catering for widening the range of options available to passengers for ordering food of their choice. (iii) Pilot for introduction of precooked food (‘ready to eat’ meals) in the range of options available to passengers. (iv) Operation of centralized Catering Service Monitoring Cell (CSMC) (toll free number 1800-111-321) for prompt redressal of passenger grievances relating to the catering activities and real time assistance to travelling public. (v) Instruction has been issued to ensure stickers bearing price, grammage, date of packing etc. are pasted on food packets (vi) Price list stickers are displayed in the pantry car and pasted in coaches. (vii) Service providers are advised to ensure that the vendor are carrying menu card while taking orders. (viii) Operation of all India Helpline (No.138) for rail-users to lodge complaints/suggestions regarding food and catering services (ix) A Twitter handle @ IRCATERING has also been made operational to cater to the complaints/suggestions with regard to catering services.


    As per new Catering Policy, 2017, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) is managing 331 Duronto, Rajdhani, Shatabdi and Mail Express trains.


    This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha on 03.01.2018 (Wednesday).


    ****


    AKS/MKV/PM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1515250) Visitor Counter : 632