      Ministry of Defence

      Time-Bound Promotion of Non-Commissioned Officers of Armed Forces
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2018 5:47PM by PIB Delhi


    The status regarding time-bound promotion for non-commissioned officers of armed forces to the rank of Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) and its equivalent in Army, Navy and Air Force is indicated as under:-


    Army: No Proposal for granting time bound promotion to non-commissioned officers to the rank of JCOs is presently under consideration. The Junior Commissioned Officer (JCOs) / Other Ranks (ORs) of Indian Army are given three financial upgradation under the MACP scheme on completion of 8, 16 and 24 years of service as per recommendations of the VI and VII Central Pay Commission. On receipt of such financial upgradation, the individual receives next higher pay level. The MACP / ACP scheme is applicable since 1st September, 2008.


    In addition to above, as per existing policy a sepoy who does not receive any promotion in his service and retires at 17/19 years of service is appointed as Lance Naik and given time scale rank of Naik prior to retirement. Thus the interest of JCOs / ORs is taken care of.


    Air Force: Time bound promotions are provided upto the rank of sergeant. Promotion to the rank of Junior Warrant Officer (JWO) and above are selection based.


    Navy: Time bound promotion is undertaken in first two ranks i.e. for promotion from Sea II to Seaman 1st Class and from Seaman 1st Class to Leading Seaman. There is no proposal to implement time bound promotions for other non-commissioned officers in Indian Navy.


    The scheme of MACP providing for financial upgradation on completion of 8, 16 & 24 years of service is also applicable for non-commissioned officers in Air Force and Indian Navy also.


    This information was given by Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr. Subhash Bhamre in a written reply to Shri Mahendra Singh Mahra in Rajya Sabha today.


    NAo/Nampi/DK/HS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1515047) Visitor Counter : 2913