      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Protection of Jarawa Tribes
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2018 4:51PM by PIB Delhi


    National Commission of Scheduled Tribes (NCST) had written letters to the Secretaries of Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of I&B, Ministry of Tribal Affairs and Chief Secretary, A&N islands for taking strict action against those who upload inappropriate video films/ photos on You Tube.


    A&N Administration, vide Press Release dated 16.10.2017 has clarified that posting/ uploading of pictures/ videos of tribes of A&N Islands in any social networking sites is punishable with imprisonment upto three years as per Section 7 of the A&N (Protection of Aboriginal Tribes) Amendment Regulation, 2012 and also attracts Section 3 (i) ® of the SC & ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989. It further advised all to refrain themselves from posting/ uploading of pictures / videos of tribes of A&N Islands in the social networking sites, in the interest of tribes of A&N Islands.


    Deputy Superintendent (CID), Port Blair had registered case vide FIR under Section 3(1) 9 R SC&ST (Prevention of Atrocities )Act, 2016 against unknown persons. Further, an Advisory Note dated 16.10.2017 has also been issued hat any person who enters into the reserved area without permission for the purpose of taking photographs or making videos of aboriginal tribes shall be liable for punishment with imprisonment which may extend to three years and fine which may extend to Rs. 10,000/-


    Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting as well as Ministry of Information Technology have also initiated action by providing necessary URLs of inappropriate and objectionable videos for removing them.


    Andaman & Nicobar Administration vide Gazette Notification dated 21.12.2004 had issued Policy on Jarawa Tribe of Andaman Islands with the following objectives:

     1. To protect the Jarawas from harmful effects of exposure and contact with the outside world while they are not physically, socially and culturally prepared for such interface
     2. To preserve the social organization, mode of subsistence and cultural identity of the Jarawa community
     3. To provide medical help to the Jarawas to reduce mortality and morbidity in case of their sudden affliction with diseases which their systems are unaccustomed to
     4. To conserve the ecology and environment of the Jarawa Reserve Territory and strengthen support systems in order to enable the Jarawas pursue their traditional modes of subsistence end way of life; and
     5. To sensitize settler communities around the Jarawa habitat and personnel working for the protection and preservation of the Jarawas about the need to preserve this ancient community and to value their unique culture and life styles.

    The Andaman Adim Janjati Vikas Samiti (AAJVS) an autonomous body functions like a trustee of the interest of the Jarawas and advises A&N Administration regarding the protection and welfare of all aboriginal tribes including the Jarawas. As per the Andaman & Nicobar Administration survey, the total population of Jarawas is 480.


    This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Jaswantsinh Sumanbhai Bhabhor in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha.


    ****


    MKV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1515002) Visitor Counter : 2024
    
    
    
    
    

5.