      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      CIPAM-DIPP launches IP competition for college & university students
      Posted On: 15 JAN 2018 11:15AM by PIB Delhi


    The Cell for IPR Promotion and Management (CIPAM), Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP), in collaboration with ASSOCHAM and ERICSSON India, has launched a one of its kind Intellectual Property (IP) Competition ‘IPrism’ for college and university students.


    This competition invites students to submit films on piracy & counterfeiting under two categories of 30 and 60 seconds. Another category in the competition is for a mobile gaming app on IP . The last date for receiving entries is 31 st March, 2018. Cash prizes worth INR 4 lacs will be given to the winning teams along with mementos, certificates and recognition on the official CIPAM website ( www.cipam.gov.in) . The competition aims to foster a culture of innovation and creativity in the younger generation. It will provide young creators a unique opportunity to see their creations recognized on a national platform.


    Counterfeiting and Piracy cause significant loss to the industry and pose serious safety threats to the consumers. Generating awareness can help in tackling such crimes since limited knowledge about their adverse social and economic impact leads to circulation and consumption of pirated content and fake goods.


    You may visit www.iprism.co.in or follow CIPAM on Twitter at @CIPAM_India or Facebook at CIPAM India for complete details and regular updates on the competition.


    As it may be recalled, the National IPR Policy was adopted on 12 th May, 2016 to create a vibrant IP ecosystem in the country. Creating IPR Awareness through outreach and promotional activities is the first and foremost objective of the Policy. CIPAM, a professional body under DIPP, has been actively involved in many activities including a nation-wide IPR awareness campaign.


    ****


    NP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1516679) Visitor Counter : 4614
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu