      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      NPCC to undertake infrastructure projects also- Meghwal
      
      Company completes 61 years of Service to Nation
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2018 1:26PM by PIB Delhi


      Union Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation and Parliamentary Affairs Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal has said that National Project Construction Corporation Ltd. (NPCC), a PSU of the Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation will now undertake basic infrastructure projects like Road, Buildings and Environment related projects also. He was addressing a function organized on the occasion of 61 st Annual Day celebration of NPCC at New Delhi yesterday. Shri Meghwal said that government is giving proper attention on development of infrastructure projects as well as on the projects related to linking of Rivers and Cleaning Ganga. He further said that NPCC has begun working as Nodal Agency in Jharkhand for Clean Ganga Mission. He expressed hope that NPCC will serve the country well by implementing projects of the Ministry and projects of border areas with high quality standards in cost effective manner. He wished for success of NPCC in construction sector also and appreciated the dedication of employees of the company who work in remote and difficult areas where common man does not dare to enter.


      Welcoming the Minister the CMD of NPCC Shri Sanjay Kundu briefly narrated the achievement of the company and said that it was possible only due to collective efforts of the employees, cooperation of shareholders, clients and stakeholders. He said the company faced many ups and downs in last fifty years and was revived by the Government of India during 2009-10 and since then it is continuously earning profits. He informed the company paid a dividend of Rs. 1.02 crore for the year 2015-16 after a gap of almost 50 years. The dividend paid by the company to the Government for the year 2016-17 was Rs. 2.05 crore.


      During the last six decades NPCC has created land marks by completing innumerable projects even in remote areas where private sector companies did not venture. Completion of Wazirabad barrage across river Yamuna in one working season at Delhi, Asia's longest Sir Arthur Cotton barrage across river Godavari in AP, Singda earth Dam and Khuga Dam in Manipur, Maharani, Khowai and Manu barrages in Tripura, Loktak Hydroelectric project in Manipur were few challenging projects of importance to demonstrate NPCC's ability to contribute in the Nation's development. NPCC believes in implementing the projects with highest customer satisfaction with global standards and take optimal care of all concerned stakeholders.


      ****


      SAMIR/SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1516127) Visitor Counter : 1298
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi