      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      MOU Signed for Providing Centralized Platform for Processing Interest Subsidy to Eligible Beneficiaries under Sep Component of Day-Nulm
      Posted On: 09 JAN 2018 6:47PM by PIB Delhi


    A Memorandum of Understanding(MOU) has been signed in the presence of ShHardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State(I/C) Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to provide a centralized platform for processing interest subsidy to eligible beneficiaries under Self Employment Programme (SEP) component of DeendayalAntyodayaYojana- National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM). The MOU was signed between Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MOHUA) and Allahabad Bank here today. Smt. UshaAnanthasubramaniyan, MD &CEO, Allahabad Bank and Shri Sanjay Kumar, Joint Secretary from the Housing Ministry signed the MOU.Ms. Archana Mittal, Director, NULM and senior officials from the Ministry were also present on the occasion.


    The Web-portal will provide an end-to-end solution for processing interest subsidy for NULM schemes. The subsidy will be credited to Aadhaar linked beneficiary account in a seamless process through DBT mode. The portal will also facilitate on-line validation of loans granted by Banks, through Urban Local Bodies.


    Under the Self-Employment Component (SEP) of NULM, bank loans for setting up micro- enterprise are available to individuals (upto 2 lakhs) and groups (upto 10 lakhs) of urban poor; consumption loans (as per the savings) are also available for Self Help Groups (SHGs). Interest subvention from Ministry is available for the amount of interest charged over and above 7% , by the banks and women SHGs are eligible for additional 3% subvention on timely loan repayment


    Currently, processing of interest subvention is manual – banks submit claims to ULBs on a monthly basis, who then verify and settle them – tedious and time-taking process

      * Delay or non-submission of claims by banks for interest subsidy
      * No mechanism to ascertain whether beneficiary has received subsidy or not
      * As on 31 st December 2017, the interest subsidy claimed by banks is Rs 204.27 crore, against an estimated amount of subsidy claim of Rs 700 crores (FY 2014-15 to Q3 2017-18).

    Under the Proposed System, Common centralized IT platform for all states, to streamline release of interest subsidy and facilitate proper monitoring – Allahabad Bank selected for the design and development of portal. Claims will be uploaded by Central/Zonal HQ of banks on the portal; concerned States/ULBs will verify the beneficiaries, after which the claim amount will be transferred to the beneficiary through Direct Beneficiary Transfer (DBT) mode; SMS will be sent to beneficiary intimating him about release of subsidy in his account; Allahabad Bank will charge a service fee of 1.05% of interest subsidy amount released; Ministry, States and ULBs will get reports to monitor interest subvention delivery; Web Portal will be functional by beginning of FY 2018-19


    RJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1516066) Visitor Counter : 1376
    
    
    
    
    

*