      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister reviews the functioning of Office of Registrar General of India
      
      Discusses the progress of National Registration of citizens and National population Register

      Posted On: 10 JAN 2018 7:24PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh today reviewed the functioning of the Office of Registrar General and Census Commissioner in New Delhi. Union Home Secretary, RGI and senior officers of the office of RGI and Home Ministry were also present in the meeting.


    The Union Home Minister discussed the progress of update of National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam, completion of the activities relating to National Population Register, measures to improve and strengthen the Civil Registration System and the road map for undertaking the Census in 2021. RGI also briefed about the other functions of the organisation relating to Language, Social Studies and Map Divisions.


    In regard to the update of NRC in Assam, it was informed that the part draft list covering 1.9 crore applicants in respect of whom the process of verification has been completed has been published on 31-12-2017 as per the directions of the Supreme Court. Another draft list comprising remaining applicants will be published subsequently after completion of their verification. The process is being undertaken in a fair and objective manner and under monitoring of the Supreme Court. After the publication of the complete draft NRC, claims and objections will be invited.


    Union Home Minister was informed that the works relating to National Population Register updated in 2015 have been completed in most of the States. In regard to the Census 2021, the activities required to be undertaken in 2018 were discussed. These include firming up the design, stakeholders meeting and pilot exercise in selected States. The Minister was also informed about the progress of Civil Registration System and it was brought out that registration level of birth is 88% and death is about 76.6% at an All India level. The Vital Rates for 2016 under Sample Registration System have been released recently according to which the birth rate at All India level is 20.4 and death rate is 6.4 and Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) is 34. The need to have geo referenced map pertaining to all villages and town was also highlighted by the Home Minister.


    ******


    PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1516279) Visitor Counter : 1622