      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      “Government will launch a clean air campaign for two-weeks in delhi next month”: Dr. Harsh vardhan
      Posted On: 12 JAN 2018 4:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan has said that starting from February 10, the Union Government will launch a joint campaign for two weeks, with Delhi Government, NDMC, CPCB and other municipal agencies, for clean air in Delhi. “The campaign seeks to sensitise ground-level functionaries and general public to enforce the habit of environmental protection”, the Minister pointed out. Chairing a meeting on mitigation of air pollution here today, Dr. Harsh Vardhan emphasised that there will be a team of 70 officers, led jointly by one officer each from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and one officer from the State Government of Delhi. These officers will be assisted by officers from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), DPCC and respective municipal corporations.


    The Minister emphasised that Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs), shopkeeper associations and the civil society will be encouraged to become a part of these teams and participate in the campaign for mitigation of pollution. The teams will be provided with check lists so that there is focussed activity on mitigation of pollution, including effective measures for dust mitigation, solid waste management and prevention of garbage burning.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan pointed out that the campaign will result in taking effective steps for pollution mitigation. He expressed the hope that this will become a template which can be emulated throughout the year.


    Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Shri C.K. Mishra and Chief Secretary, Delhi Government, Shri Anshu Prakash attended the meeting. Among others who were present at today’s meeting included officers from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, various municipal agencies of Delhi Government, CPCB and DPCC.


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1516547) Visitor Counter : 2017