      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is leading the Indian delegation to 10th Global Forum for Food & Agriculture, Berlin, Germany from 18th -20th January 2018
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2018 5:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is leading the Indian delegation to 10 th Global Forum for Food & Agriculture from 18-20 January, 2018 which includes the 10 th Berlin Agriculture Ministers’ Conference.


    The theme of this year’s event is “Shaping the future of livestock – sustainably, responsibly, efficiently”. The discussions will focus on sustainable and productive animal production among other issues.


    Bilateral meetings with counterparts of Germany, Uzbekistan and Argentina are proposed on the sideline of GFFA to discuss issues to further enhance cooperation in agriculture and allied sectors.


    About Global Forum for Food and Agriculture (GFFA)


    The Global Forum for Food and Agriculture (GFFA) is an international conference that focuses on central questions concerning the future of the global agri-food industry. It is held during International Green Week (IGW) and will be taking place in its current shape for the eighth time. The forum gives representatives from the worlds of politics, business, science and civil society an opportunity to share ideas and enhance understanding on a selected topic of current agricultural policy. The GFFA is organised by the Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection (BMEL) in cooperation with GFFA Berlin e.V., the Senate of Berlin and Messe Berlin GmbH.


    Specific aspects of the GFFA’s main theme will be explored in more detail in different event formats. The opening event in 2018 will outline the key issue and explain how it will be addressed by the various GFFA events. The main events are the Berlin Agriculture Ministers’ Conference hosted by the BMEL, and the International Business Panel Discussion hosted by GFFA Berlin e.V.


    The Agriculture Ministers will convene in the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy for the Berlin Agriculture Ministers’ Conference (not public). With almost 90 ministers at the last conference, this is the world’s largest conference of agriculture ministers. A final communiqué representing the common position of the ministers is incorporated into the ongoing international discourse on agricultural policy.


    The preliminary work for the main events is done on the preceding day in High Level Panels hosted by international organisations. The results of these meetings are incorporated into the final communiqué.


    In expert panel discussions hosted by various organisers, the main theme is discussed from specific topical and regional perspectives. This ensures that the GFFA is closely meshed with current scientific thinking.


    During the GFFA there will be a Cooperation Market where associations, companies, universities and the BMEL will showcase their activities in the agri-food sector. This – along with the Business Lounge – provides all the GFFA participants with an opportunity to withdraw from the bustle and conduct bilateral talks in a more relaxed atmosphere.


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1516962) Visitor Counter : 2521