      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      “Hunar Haat being organised across the Country have Become a Credible Brand”: Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi
      Posted On: 11 JAN 2018 5:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has said that “Hunar Haat”, being organised across the country by Minority Affairs Ministry have become a “credible brand” to fulfil the commitment of the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, to “Make In India”, “Stand Up India”, “Start Up India”. In a statement on Hunar Haat here today, the Minister said that “Hunar Haat” has proved to be an effective mission to provide market & opportunities to talent of master artisans and craftsmen from across the nation.


    Shri Naqvi said that during the last one year, “Hunar Haat” have been successful in providing employment and employment opportunities to more than 3 lakh artisans and other people associated with them. He said that 5 “Hunar Haat” have been organised at International Trade Fair at Pragati Maidan and Baba Kharak Singh Marg at New Delhi; Puducherry and Mumbai. He added that 5 th “Hunar Haat”, organised at Islam Gymkhana Marine Lines Mumbai, from January 4-10, 2018, was a hit, as more than 5 lakh people visited there and encouraged master artisans and culinary experts, who came from every corner of the country. The visitors purchased the handmade products made by these artisans on a large scale. The artisans also received large-scale orders from domestic, as well as international markets.


    The Minister said that Ministry of Minority Affairs is organising “Hunar Haat”under “USTTAD” scheme in different parts of the country and “Hunar Haat” have become a successful mission to provide employment and employment opportunities and national, as well international markets for thousands of master artisans, craftsmen and culinary experts.


    More than 130 artisans, craftsmen and culinary experts participated in “Hunar Haat”, organised at Mumbai. A large number of women artisans also showcased their skill.


    The artisans displayed and sold very exquisite pieces of Handicraft & Handloom work like cane & bamboo & jute products of Assam; tussar, geeja, matka silk of Bhagalpur; traditional jewellery, lac bangles & jewellery from Rajasthan & Telangana; Kantha products of West Bengal; brocades of Varanasi; Lucknawi Chikan work, Zari Zardozi from U.P; Khurja Ceramic Products; Clay items, Blackstone Pottery, Dry Flowers and Traditional Handicrafts of North-East; Shawls, Carpets & Papier-machie of Kashmir; Ajrakh Print, Mutva, Kutch Embroidery & Bandhej of Gujarat; Batik/Bagh/Maheshwari of Madhya Pradesh; Aplique & Ajrakh of Barmer; Leather Products, Brassware of Moradabad; Kalamkari of Telangana; to name a few.


    For the first time artisans of Parsi Gara Embroidery, calligraphy in wood and Rogan Art participated. Besides, visitors at Mumbai’s “Hunar Haat”, famous cuisines like Kashmir Wazwan, Bengali Sweets, Nagaland Cuisines, Kerala Jackfruit, Biryani, & Kababs, Rajasthani Thali, Gujarati Thali and many other delicacies.


    Shri Naqvi said that 6 th “Hunar Haat” will be organised at Baba Khadak Singh Marg in February. “Hunar Haat” will also be organised at Jaipur, Chandigarh, Kolkata, Lucknow, Bhopal and other places in coming days. “Besides, we are working to establish “Hunar Hub” in all states of the country where artisans will be provided training, as per present requirement”, Shri Naqvi stated.


    ***


    HK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1516418) Visitor Counter : 1849