      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Sh. Ravi Shankar Prasad inaugurates Gigabit Connectivity with Sri Lanka
      Posted On: 15 JAN 2018 5:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Law and Justice and Electronics and IT Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad is on an official visit to Sri Lanka. On the first day of his visit, he inaugurated the gigabit connectivity between the National Knowledge Network of India and LEARN network of Sri Lanka. This dedicated high speed internet connectivity will boost the collaboration among the academic institutions of India and Sri Lanka. Sri Lankan Minister for Telecommunications and Digital Infrastructure Mr. Harin Fernando was also present on this occasion. After the launch from the headquarters of the Ministry of Telecommunications and Digital Infrastructure, Colombo the Minister also held a video conference with officers of Ministry of Electronics and IT, Govt of India present in Delhi and other connected educational institutions of India and Sri Lanka.


    Both countries signed MoU for enhancing cooperation between India and Sri Lanka in the IT sector, cyber security and eGovernance. On this occasion, the Minister also inaugurated the use of eOffice software developed by National Informatics Center (NIC) by the government of Sri Lanka.


    Later Minister Prasad called on the Hon’ble President of Sri Lanka Mr. Maithripala Sirisena and the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka Mr. Ranil Wickremesinghe. He shared the success of UMANG app launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the presence of Sri Lankan Prime Minister Wickremsinghe a few months ago during the inaugural ceremony of Global Conference on Cyber Space in New Delhi. Minister Prasad briefed the Sri Lankan Prime Minister about the success of BPOs in small towns of India under the India BPO Promotion Scheme and North East BPO Promotion Scheme. He extended an invitation to the experts and officers from Sri Lanka to visit India to study some of the eGovernance applications developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC).


    Later Minster Prasad delivered the Lakshman Kadirgamar Memorial Lecture 2018 on the invitation of the Foreign Ministry of Sri Lanka where he spoke on the Evolution of India’s Constitutional Democracy.


    NNK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1516733) Visitor Counter : 2128