      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Col. Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore unveils the Khelo India Anthem -To be telecast on the Star Sports Network and Hotstar
      Posted On: 15 JAN 2018 4:49PM by PIB Delhi


    In an endeavor to encourage mass participation and promote excellence in sports, the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports here today unveiled the Khelo India Anthem Commencing on January 31, 2018, the Khelo India School Games will be the first programme to mark the beginning of Khelo India, a category defining, holistic sports development programme. Star Sports, India’s leading sports broadcaster has come in as broadcast partner.


    Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore unveiled the Khelo India Anthem, a spirited composition, which resonates with the vision of the programme, of nurturing a rich sporting culture in the country. Speaking on the occasion Col. Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore said, “Khelo India is a unique programme which is focused on building a strong sport ecosystem and is committed to long-term professional development of athletes. We aim to take this initiative to as many sportspersons and aspirants across the country as possible. The Khelo India School Games will play a pivotal role in this movement, by encouraging participation among youngsters. He said we will create bench strength of the players through Khelo India. For the first time, the games will be broadcast, on Star Sports, which will inspire more youngsters to become a part of this sporting revolution in the years to come." Managing Director, Star India Shri Sanjay Gupta also graced the event,


    The anthem is conceptualized by Ogilvy, composed by Louis Bank and the film has been produced by Nirvana Films.


    Khelo India School Games will be held at multiple venues across Delhi including, the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Indira Gandhi Stadium Complex, Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium, Karni Singh Shooting Range and Dr. SPM Swimming Complex. The school games encompass 16 sports disciplines such as Archery, Athletics, Badminton, Basketball, Boxing, Football, Gymnastics, Hockey, Judo, Kabaddi, Kho-Kho, Shooting, Swimming, Volleyball, Weightlifting and Wrestling.


    ***


    AD/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1516725) Visitor Counter : 2331