      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Trade unions are our eyes who brings the real facts before the law enforcing agencies- Gangwar
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2018 5:06PM by PIB Delhi


      Union Minister of State for Labour & Employment (I/C) Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar inaugurated newly constructed auditorium of Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) on the occasion of 117 th Foundation Day of DGMS at Dhanbad today. He expressed his happiness that he visited the coal capital of India i.e. Dhanbad and understood the ground reality of mining by visiting the mines. He promised to visit mines at frequent intervals unlike the situation wherein no Minister has visited Dhanbad for past 17 yrs.


      He informed that 44 Labour Laws have been compiled and only four Codes i.e. code on Wages, Code of Industrial relations, Code on Social security and Code on Working condition and occupational Health and Safety, have been framed for simplifying the complicated procedure.


      On the occasion of Foundation Day Shri Gangwar informed the gathering that he visited the Underground & Opencast mine workings and understood the method of workings as well as the risk associated with it. He praised DGMS for keeping constant vigil on the hazardous process of mining and advising management to take safety measures for the benefit of persons working in the mine.


      While replying to a query raised by various trade union leaders and Peoples representatives, relating to closure of Dhanbad–Chandrapura Rly line, he urged that the matter has been decided by a committee formed by HPCC and PMO is following it up. He categorically stated that wherever public safety is involved, no chance would be taken even if there is a risk of 0.1%.


      Shri Gangwar met with mine workers, trade union representatives and mine officials to understand mining culture, mining methods, status of safety and the issues related to occupational health and safety matters prevailing in the mine yesterday. He also visited Moonidih Underground Coal Mine of M/s. Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) which is highly gassy and mechanized underground Coal Mine. He inaugurated “Bolter Miner Machine” which deals with coal cutting including roof bolting for roof support system in belowground workings. He interacted with contractor’s workers while inspecting belowground workings.


      While interacting with trade union representatives, Minister stated categorically that “trade unions are our eyes” who brings the real facts before the law enforcing agency for suitable action.


      He expressed hope that DGMS will perform as a team and work hard for the noble purpose of saving human lives and succeed in our endeavourer.


      Shri Ravindra Kumar Pandey and Shri Pashupati Nath Singh, Members of Parliament of Giridih and Dhanbad and Senior officials of the Ministry and DGMS accompanied him during the two day visit.


      *****


      SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1516190) Visitor Counter : 1084