      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Government of support Delhi University’s initiative to start Cyber Security Department
      
      ~ “India to be the hub of low cost cyber security products” – Sh. Ravi Shankar Prasad
      
      ~ The Minister inaugurated the 6th International Commerce Conference 2018 on Digital Outreach of Marketing Practices

      Posted On: 11 JAN 2018 5:05PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hon’ble Union Minister for Electronics & Information Technology and Law & Justice, today inaugurated the 6th International Commerce Conference 2018 of the Department of Commerce, Delhi School of Economics. Themed on ‘Digital Outreach and Future of Marketing Practices’, the two day conference intends to bring frontward numerous insights in apprehending the impact of digital marketing in the light of Digital India Formation – an initiative by the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. Dr. Yogesh K Tyagi, Vice Chancellor, Delhi University, Prof. Pami Dua, Director, Delhi School of Economics, Prof. Kavita Sharma, Head & Dean, Department of Commerce, Delhi School of Economics and Prof. Jagadish Seth, Emroy University, among others.


    In his remarks, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad said, “India’s digital ecosystem is very very powerful, which also necessitates the stronger cyber security, cyber training and cyber coordination. I am pleased to learn that Delhi University is going to start a separate department for Cyber Security. The government will provide all possible support as India is soon going to be a powerful centre of low cost cyber security products.”


    “Today the consumers will become the creator of his own content, and all the traditional norms of marketing will change. This is new manifestation of emerging India, wherein you need a platform, which is accessible, which has application, and which can be adopted; and Digital India is creating these opportunities.” He added.


    Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad also emphasized on the fact that, “ India is strongly poised to lead the Digital Revolution of the world. Digital India is more for the poor and underprivileged, designed for empowering ordinary Indians and bridge the divide between Digital haves and Digital have nots. Most importantly, Digital India aims at Digital Inclusion, which is the basic philosophy of India which the world today has been appreciating.”


    The conference would be supported by three plenary sessions on Understanding Digital Consumer & Marketing Practices; Social Media for Social Causes; and Analytics: Present and Future, that would be conducted a panel of 5-6 speakers and nearly 150 research papers addressing the conference tracks would be presented during the conference.


    NNK/MD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1516412) Visitor Counter : 1370