      Ministry of Tourism

      ‘Bharat Parv’ Event Generates Patriotic Mood And Promotes Rich Cultural Diversity of India
      Posted On: 28 JAN 2018 5:25PM by PIB Delhi


    ‘Bharat Parv’ event being organized by the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India at the Red Fort, Delhi from 26 th to 31 st January, 2018 is generating a patriotic mood and promoting the rich cultural diversity of the country. People in large number are visiting it. The entry to the Parv is free and it open for public from 12.00 Noon to 10.00 pm. However, identity proof is to be carried for entry to the event.


    Today, The Army, Air Force and Navy presented Static Band and Army also displayed Dynamic Band. The classical singing programme was performed by the artists from Chandigarh. Garba Raas was presented by the artists from Gujarat; Parinay Sutra was performed by the artists from Bihar; Badhai was presented by the artists from Madhya Pradesh; and Sehariyas, Gair and Chakri were performed by the artists of Rajasthan. At last, the artists of North Zone Cultural Centre (NZCC) presented a Choreographed performance on Pan India Basis.


    The Ministry of Tourism has been designated as the nodal Ministry for the event, the highlights of which include Display of Republic Day Parade Tableaux, Performances by the Armed Forces Bands (Static as well as dynamic), a Multi-Cuisine Food Court, Crafts Mela, Cultural Performances from different regions of the country and Photo Exhibition by the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP).


    The Cultural Performances include choreographed Folk/ Tribal Dances and Music arranged through the North Zonal Cultural Centre as well as performances by cultural troupes from the different States / UTs of the country. The Food Court has stalls set up by the States/ UTs, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) showcasing street food from different regions as well as by the Institutes of Hotel Managements and ITDC.


    The Crafts Mela with 50 stalls showcases the diverse handicrafts of the country, arranged by the State Governments and Ministry of Textiles through the office of the Development Commissioner of Handicrafts. There are Theme State Pavilions where each State is showcasing its strength along with its tourism products. DAVP has set up an exhibition on the theme “Naya Bharat Hum Karke Rahenge”. A live ‘Cookery Demonstration Area’ has been set up in the food court to promote cuisines of different States of India.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/28-01-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517998) Visitor Counter : 1661
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil