      Ministry of Defence

      Bridges of Friendship – Chief of Royal Australian Navy visit Indian Naval Academy
      Posted On: 19 JAN 2018 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


    1. Vice Admiral Timothy W Barrett, Chief of Royal Australian Navy along with Royal Australian Naval (RAN) delegates visited Indian Naval Academy (INA) today, Friday, 19 January 2018. During the visit, the Chief of Royal Australian Navy and accompanying RAN delegates were acquainted with Infrastructure, Academic facilities and training processes at INA.


    2. The aim of the visit was to build bridges of friendship between the two navies, exchange best practices and to consolidate and enhance bilateral defence relations between India and Australia. Naval cooperation between India and Australia has been traditionally strong, encompassing a wide span which includes operational interactions, training visits, port calls, participation in competitive annual sailing regatta Admirals Cup at INA along with capacity building and capability augmentation initiatives.


    3. The visit of Vice Admiral Timothy W Barrett, Chief of Royal Australian Navy along with Royal Australian Naval (RAN) delegates to INA closely follows the successful conclusion of the second edition of biennial Australia-India Maritime Bilateral Exercise (AUSINDEX) conducted off West coast of Australia in the Western Australia Exercise Areas (WAXA) from 13 to 19 June 17. Indian Naval Ships Jyoti, Shivalik and Kamorta participated in the exercise. The AUSINDEX was followed by the visit of Royal Australian Navy (RAN) ship, HMAS Newcastle to Kochi, Kerala from 04 to 07 July 17.


    4. In the recently concluded eighth edition of ‘Admirals Cup’ Sailing Regatta held at Indian Naval Academy Team Australia represented by Sub Lieutanant Alix Peruzzis and Midshipman Bryson Carew lead by Lieutenant Duncan McCowan came third in the overall team position. The naval cooperation between the two countries is in pursuance of India’s Act East policy to promote bilateral relations, enhance interoperability and is reflective of the growing level of cooperation between both Navies.


    5. The Chief of Royal Australian Navy, during his visit called on Vice Admiral SV Bhokare, AVSM, YSM, NM, Commandant, INA who is an alumni of the Australian Defence College, Canberra. It was a mutually satisfying and enriching experience for the officers of both Navies and reaffirmed the universal truth that Oceans unite all Nations. The Chief of Royal Australian Navy and RAN delegation departed Indian Naval Academy today, Friday, 19 January 2018.


    DKS/RGA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517227) Visitor Counter : 1117
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi