      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban Launches Smart Star-Rating for Garbage Free Cities
      
      Cities can be Rated as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 & 7 Star Based on their Compliance with the Protocol Conditions Specified for Each of the Rating: Hardeep Puri
      
      61 Beneficiaries Availed Interest Subsidy of Rs. 1.28 Crore Under CLSS of PMAY (U)--State Requested to Focus on MIG Category for Availing Subsidy Under CLSS Due to its Large Working Population
      
      Puri Asks Goa to Take up Projects Under In-Situ Slum Redevelopment Projects (ISSR) Component of PMAY(U) for Making Cities Clean
      Posted On: 20 JAN 2018 4:28PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (I/C) for Housing and Urban Affairs along with the Chief Minister of Goa, Shri Manohar Parrikar today launched the ‘Protocol for Star Rating of Garbage-Free Cities’ in Goa. The star-rating initiative, developed by the Swachh Bharat Mission – Urban will be rating cities on a 7-star rating system based on multiple cleanliness indicators for solid waste management, which will include Door to Door Collection, bulk generator compliance, source segregation, sweeping, scientific processing of waste, scientific land filling, plastic waste management, construction and demolition management, dump remediation & citizen grievance redressal system etc.


    Cities can be rated as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 star based on their compliance with the protocol conditions specified for each of the rating. Further city should be ODF(Open Defecation Free) before it could be given rating of 3 star or above. While cities may self-declare themselves as 1-star, 2-star or 4-star, MoHUA will carry out an additional verification through an independent third party to certify cities as 3-star, 5-star or 7-star. Cities will need to get recertified themselves every year to retain their star-status.


    The most significant feature of the rating protocol is that it provides stakeholders with a single metric to rate a city’s cleanliness, rather than separately evaluating multiple factors which contribute to a city’s overall cleanliness and garbage free status. The SMART rating ( S ingle metric, M easurable, A chievable, R igorous verification, T argeted towards outcomes) is characterized by Trust and verify model and sustainability (progressive and to be recertified every year). The protocol will involve the participation of all stakeholders and common people to aspire for higher grading in cleanliness. The Swachh Survekshan survey run by the SBM Urban for the past three years has successfully built up a spirit of healthy competition among cities, vying with each other every year to improve their ranking as compared to other cities. The distinctive feature of Star Rating System will be that many cities can have higher stars as compared to only one city can be “Cleanest city” under Swachh Survekshan.


    SBM-Urban’s objective of achieving a ‘clean India’ is encapsulated in the Vision statement of the star-rating protocol, stating that “All cities achieve “Garbage Free” status wherein at any point of time in the day, no garbage or litter is found in any public, commercial or residential locations (including storm drains and water bodies) in the city (except in litter bins or transfer stations); 100 per cent of waste generated is scientifically managed; all legacy waste has been remediated and city is scientifically managing its municipal solid waste, plastic waste and construction & demolition waste. Additionally, there must be a steady reduction in the waste generated by the city and visible beautification of the city to achieve a clean & aesthetically pleasing city”.It is expected that the Star-rating initiative will be another effective tool for achieving the objectives of Swachh Bharat Mission of “Open Defecation Free and Garbage Free India”


    Sh Hardeep Puri, Housing and Urban Affairs Minister also informed that Goa being a young and a vibrant state given its socio-economic profile has immense potential in the affordable housing sector. Therefore, Pardhan Mantri Awas Yojana- Urban (PMAY-U) is an important mission to cater to the overall demand of affordable housing in Goa. The housing demand statistics registered in the PMAY-MIS indicates that there is housing demand for about 5,000 houses across the entire State in all 14 Urban Statutory towns included in the PMAY(U) Mission. About 1000 demand has been already registered in the CLSS component of PMAY(U) in Goa. Due to its vast tourism let economic activities, the facility of CLSS can be widely availed by the Aspirational class in EWS, MIG & LIG categories in the State of Goa. As of now 61 beneficiaries have already availed an interest subsidy of Rs. 1.28 crore in their home loan accounts under CLSS of PMAY (U). State has been requested to focus on MIG category for availing subsidy under CLSS due to its large working population. The 2011 Census has also reported 4,846 slum households in 3 towns (Ponda, Mormugao and Margao). The State Government has been requested to take up projects under In-Situ Slum Redevelopment projects (ISSR) component of PMAY(U) for making the cities clean and providing dignified living to slum households. The State of Goa has assured to bring project proposals under BLC component during the forthcoming CSMC which is scheduled to be held on 31.1.2018. The State has been requested to ensure budgetary provision matching with the Proposals/ AIP and to ensure availability of encumbrance free land for meeting the demand for houses. State has also been requested to opt for technology neutral bidding process for adopting modern, innovative and green technologies and building materials.


    RJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517313) Visitor Counter : 3054