      Vice President's Secretariat

      Untouchability is the real enemy of humanity: Vice President
      
      Helping the poor is real patriotism: Shri M Venkaiah Naidu
      
      Kattabomman exemplifies the qualities of courage and conviction: VPI

      Posted On: 18 JAN 2018 8:56PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India Shri M Venkaiah Naidu has said that Untouchability is the real enemy of humanity and helping the poor is real patriotism. He addressed the All India Telugu Association event in Chennai today commemorating 258th birth anniversary of Veerapandiya Kattabomman & 250th Jayanti of Sadhguru Thyāgarāja. Tamil Nadu Governor Shri Banwarilal Purohit, Shri P. Balakrishna Reddy, Minister for Youth Welfare and Sports Development of Tamil Nadu and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that Veerapandiya Kattabomman, one of the earliest freedom fighters, had courageously fought against the British in the 18 th century. His saga of valiant resistance and indomitable courage continues to inspire all of us even today. Kattabomman exemplifies the qualities of courage and conviction, he said.


    The Vice President said that India’s great saint-composer, Thyāgarāja, a pioneer of Carnatic music, has provided inspiration to thousands of musicians over the last century. He embodies the ennobling and enthralling range of Indian music. Music, literature and poetry give solace, he said.


    The Vice President said that India has always celebrated diversity and plurality. It has welcomed co-existence of diverse languages and religions. It has fostered unity in diversity. It has facilitated individual identity but has promoted a culture of mutual respect. We have been particularly sensitive to the linguistic and cultural needs of minority groups, he said.


    The Vice President called on Youth to take full advantage of opportunities available in the country and help the country by creating jobs. Major impediments like poverty, illiteracy, gender divide and discrimination, urban-rural divide, corruption, casteism and communalism have to be addressed, he said.


    The Vice President said that the pre-requisite for this transformation is to be aware of the bottlenecks and constraints, and then have the ability and agility to overcome them. We are in the process of transforming India. That is the theme that excites all of us to achieve higher levels of performance, growth and prosperity. This transformation requires a passion and sense of purpose, he further said.


    The Vice President said that one must protect and preserve the best traditions in our culture. We should be aware of the rich heritage that makes us proud heirs to a unique universal world view. We should welcome bright ideas wherever they come from, he added.


    ****


    
    PK/RKR


    

    
    (Release ID: 1517159) Visitor Counter : 2740
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu