      Ministry of Finance

      India: Financial Sector Assessment Program 2017-Detailed Assessment Reports (DARs)
      Posted On: 19 JAN 2018 8:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The two main Reports of the 2017 India Financial Sector Assessment Programme (FSAP) – the Financial System Stability Assessment (FSSA) and Financial Sector Assessment (FSA), were released by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, respectively on their websites on December 21, 2017. In continuation, the IMF and the World Bank today released two Detailed Assessment Reports (DARs) relating to the 2017 India FSAP. The Report providing ‘Detailed Assessment of Observance—Basel Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision’ has been released by the IMF and the World Bank and the Report providing ‘Detailed Assessment of Observance of Clearing Corporation of India Limited (CCIL) Central Counter Party (CCP) and Trade Repository (TR)’, was released by the World Bank.


    India welcomes these Assessment Reports by the joint IMF-World Bank team conforming to the highest international standards.


    The DAR on the observance of Basel Core Principles (BCP) commends the Reserve Bank of India for the remarkable progress in strengthening banking supervision since the last FSAP. It notes that the supervision and regulation by the Reserve Bank remain strong and have improved in recent years. Most of the Basel III framework (and related guidance) has been implemented and cooperation arrangements, both domestically and cross-border, are now firmly in place. It states that the system-wide asset quality review (AQR) and the strengthening of prudential regulations in 2015 testify to the authorities’ commitment to transparency and a more accurate recognition of banking risks. A special mention is made of the implementation of a risk-based supervisory approach, in particular the Supervisory Program for Assessment of Risk and Capital (SPARC); as also the phasing-in of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and large exposure limits and states that the recently established Central Repository of Information on Large Credits (CRILC), will provide RBI with a robust supervisory enforcement framework. It acknowledges that banking reforms, including the Indradhanush Plan for revitalizing the Public Sector Banks (PSBs) and the Bank Board Bureaus (BBBs) have helped usher in an era of transparency and improved discipline and will go a long way in resolving the problem of bad loans in India.


    The DAR on the BCP was prepared before the announcement of the recapitalization of Rs. 2.11 trillion (about US$32 billion) and the under-capitalization of PSBs mentioned in the Report has since been effectively addressed by this Plan.


    *****


    DSM/SBS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517285) Visitor Counter : 3658
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi