      Ministry of Defence

      18 bravehearts to be bestowed with National Bravery Awards – 2017, 3 of them posthumously
      Posted On: 18 JAN 2018 7:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Eighteen children, including seven girls have been selected for the National Bravery Awards 2017. Three of the bravehearts are being awarded posthumously. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will award these future leaders of the society at a function in New Delhi on January 24, 2018. They would then participate in the Republic Day Parade 2018 at the Rajpath, where they would be one of the main attractions of the event.


    The coveted Bharat Award is being conferred on 18 year old Km. Nazia of Uttar Pradesh who raised her voice against the illegal gambling and betting, which have been rampant for decades in her neighbourhood. She courageously faced and endured threats to her life but did not give up her fight.


    The prestigious Geeta Chopra Award is being conferred on 14 year old Late Km. Netravati M. Chavan of Karnataka who sacrificed her life in an attempt to save two boys from drowning.


    The Sanjay Chopra Award is being given to 17½ year old Master Karanbeer Singh of Punjab who rescued several precious lives from death with his tireless efforts and indomitable courage.


    Master Betshwajohn Peinlang (14 years) of Meghalaya, Km. Mamata Dalai (7 ½ years) of Odisha, and Master Sebastian Vincent (13½ years) of Kerala are being given the Bapu Gaidhani Awards. Betshwajohn with his fearless act of bravery saved his brother from being burned alive. Mamata Dalai dragged her friend from a crocodile's jaws with her valourous and bold action. Sebastian bravely and fearlessly saved his friend's life from an inevitable mishap on a railway track.


    The other recipients are Km. Laxmi Yadav (Chhattisgarh), Km. Mansha N, Master N. Shangpon Konyak, Master Yoaknei, Master Chingai Wangsa (all from Nagaland), Km. Samridhi Sushil Sharma (Gujarat), Master Zonuntluanga, Late Master F. Lalchhandama (both from Mizoram), Master Pankaj Semwal (Uttarakhand), Master Nadaf Ejaj Abdul Rauf (Maharashtra), Late Km. Loukrakpam Rajeshwori Chanu (Manipur) and Master Pankaj Kumar Mahanta (Odisha).


    The selection was made by a high-powered committee comprising representatives of various Ministries/Departments, Non-Governmental Organisations as well as office bearers of Indian Council for Child Welfare (ICCW).


    President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind and several other dignitaries will host receptions in their honour. Several States too are organising functions to honour them at the State level.


    The National Bravery Award Scheme was initiated by the Indian Council for Child Welfare to give due recognition to the children who distinguish themselves by performing outstanding deeds of bravery and meritorious service and to inspire other children to emulate their example.


    It was in 1957 that two children - a boy and a girl - were first rewarded for their presence of mind and courage. Since then ICCW decided to confer national awards on children every year.


    In 1987-88 ICCW instituted the Bharat Award for an exceptionally outstanding, meritorious and gallant deed. The other special awards include the Geeta Chopra and Sanjay Chopra awards (instituted by ICCW in 1978) and the Bapu Gaidhani Awards (instituted in 1988-89).


    The awardees receive a medal, certificate and cash. Eligible awardees will be granted financial assistance until they complete their schooling. Some State Governments also provide financial assistance to them. In addition, ICCW provides financial assistance under its Indira Gandhi Scholarship Scheme to those undertaking professional courses such as engineering and medicine. For the others, this assistance is provided till they complete their graduation. The Government of India has reserved some seats for the awardees in medical and engineering colleges and polytechnics.


    Since the inception of the scheme in 1957, ICCW has given awards to 963 brave children - 680 boys and 283 girls.


    Click here to see National Awards For Bravery 2017


    NAo/Nampi/DK/HS/Rajib


    

    
    (Release ID: 1517137) Visitor Counter : 1180
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi