      Ministry of Textiles

      MoS, Textiles inaugurates 60th edition of India International Garment Fair
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2018 6:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The 60 th edition of India International Garment Fair (IIGF) was inaugurated today by Minister of State for Textiles, Shri Ajay Tamta, at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi. Addressing the audience, the Minister said that garment sector is one of the largest providers of employment. He said that IIGF is a big platform which brings together overseas garment buyers and garment exporters, with almost half of Indian states participating in the fair. Shri Tamta said that the textile package announced by the Hon’ble Prime Minister has been benefitting the sector immensely. Recalling that business worth US $200 million was conducted in the previous edition, the Minister extended his best wishes to all participating buyers and exporters.


    The three-day international fair is being held at Hall Nos. 11, 12 & 12A at Pragati Maidan; the current edition caters primarily to the Autumn/Winter season of European Union, USA and other Western markets.


    Speaking on the occasion Chairman, AEPC, Mr. H. K. L Magu expressed satisfaction at the huge transformation the fair and the industry has witnessed in recent years. He said that the fair has grown in scale and scope and has emerged as one of the largest and most popular platforms in Asia, where overseas garment buyers can source products and forge business relationships with India’s finest players in Apparel and Fashion Accessories.


    A total of 294 exporters from 11 states, namely Gujarat, Haryana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, are participating at the 60th IIGF. The participants will be showcasing women’s wear, accessories, kid’s wear and menswear. International buyers from 95 countries like Brazil, Spain, Japan, Uruguay, UK, Hong Kong and US have registered to participate in the fair.


    IIGF is also organizing fashion shows, twice a day on all three days, for exhibiting the collections for business development. Besides this, the best-displayed stalls would be awarded Gold, Silver and Bronze Trophies in an award function on 18 th January, 2018.

     1. International Garment Fair is a B-2-B fair started in 1988. The fair is being organized by Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC), in association with International Garment Fair Association and four major Garment Exporters' Associations, viz. Apparel Exporters & Manufacturers Association (AEMA), Garment Exporters Association (GEA), The Clothing Manufacturers Association of (CMAI) and Garment Exporters of Rajasthan (GEAR). This is a B-2-B fair and is meant for conducting meaningful and quality business.

    ***


    DJM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1517003) Visitor Counter : 1433
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

1.