      Ministry of Mines

      Meeting of Mining Ministers on key issues held in Goa
      Posted On: 19 JAN 2018 6:17PM by PIB Delhi


    A meeting was held today in Goa under the Chairmanship of Hon’ble Union Minister of Mines Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Goa Shri Manohar Parrikar and the Hon’ble Ministers in-charge of Mining Department of major mineral rich States. Hon’ble Union Minister of State for Mines Shri Haribhai Parthibhai Chaudhary while welcoming the Ministers and officials, mentioned about harmonious efforts of the State Government along with Central Government in encouraging the growth of the mineral sector. He emphasized on adoption of best practices from each other and related departments.


    Chief Minister of Goa Sh. Manohar Parrikar who was the chief guest in the meeting informed about the Sate of mining sector in Goa and sought that support of the Central Government to resolve issues which crop up from time to time in the mining sector. He requested for reduction of export duties on Iron ore up to 60% so that the Iron ore industry of Goa is helped. Ministers from the States of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh also participated.


    A total of 88 major mineral blocks have been notified by 9 States for auction and 33 blocks have been successfully auctioned having total estimated revenue to the state government over the lease period stands at Rs 1,28,388 crores. The additionality to States due to bringing in of the auction process shall be in excess of Rs. 99,000 crores, which will accrue as an additional revenue to the States only due to introduction of auctions for grant of mineral concessions. Thus, the auctions introduced by MMDR Amendment in 2015 have brought huge additional revenues along with greater transparency in allocation of mineral resources of the country.


    The recent amendment to the Mineral Auction Rules by the Union Mines Ministry to make the auction process less cumbersome were welcomed by the States to enable them to expedite the mineral auction process. As a result, post amendment of Rules in 2017, almost 30 blocks will be put up on auction in January 2018, which is the highest in a month since the auction route was adopted for allotment of the mineral blocks.


    More than 13,700 Crore rupees have accrued in the fund of District Mineral Foundation in the mining districts of major mineral rich states across the country. These funds are being utilized for projects under the Pradhan Mantri Khanij Kshetra Kalyan Yojana (PMKKKY) for the social welfare, protection of environment and infrastructure development of mining affected areas and thus help in creating a congenial mining environment in the local communities.


    The need for initiating the auction process well in advance for the leases of merchant miners expiring in 2020 was stressed to ensure a seamless transition from the existing to the new lessees. The States informed about the efforts to draw a road map for the requirements of exploration, auction and subsequent clearances. Minister stressed that States should auction these mines well in advance to avoid disruption in mineral supply to downstream industry.


    Mining Surveillance System (MSS) harnessing the space technology was applauded by the States on its impact in curbing the incidence of illegal mining. It was informed that the portal for MSS of major minerals will be extended to the minor minerals to handhold the States control illegal mining which is more rampant in minor minerals. States indicated their eagerness for implementation of MSS for minor minerals. Of the 296 triggers generated 48 cases of illegal mining has been deducted.


    <><><><><>


    SNC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1517248) Visitor Counter : 1307