      Ministry of Home Affairs

      The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) celebrated its 13th Raising Day
      
      NDRF saved 4000 lives from disaster striking the country last year

      Posted On: 19 JAN 2018 5:05PM by PIB Delhi

    The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) celebrated its 13 th Raising Day here today. The Director Intelligence Bureau, Shri Rajiv Jain was the chief guest on this occasion. Shri Sanjay Kumar, Director General NDRF, Shri R K Jain, Member NDMA, Shri Ravi Joesh Kokku, IG, NDRF and Vishal Sharma, NSDC attended the programme.


    Sh. Rajiv Jain praised the NDRF for its role in the field of Disaster Management and said that this force has done commendable job in last few years to save the lives of people in distress by demonstrating high level of professionalism, determination and hard work by countering multiple challenges with bravery. Sh. R.K Jain, Member, NDMA also appreciated hard work, sincerity and dedication of Force personnel and applauded its efforts in disaster risk reduction. Complementing the NDRF for its role in saving the lives of 4000 people from disasters striking the country during last year, Director Intelligence Bureau, Shri Rajiv Jain said that it has lived up to the expectations of people of the country over the years.


    Shri Sanjay Kumar, Director General, NDRF highlighted the disaster threat of country and important changes taken place in Disaster Management in India and across the world. He asserted the need of enhancing the coping capacity of the community and underlined the steps taken by Force to sensitise each and every citizen through its various outreach programme viz. Familiarization Exercises, School Safety Programmes (SSPs) and Mock Exercises in which over 55.5 lakh people have sensitised by Force, till now. DG further said that the NDRF has now transferred into a most visible face of Government of India in realm of disaster response and management and brought many laurels at national and international platform. In 2017, NDRF responded to 447 operations in the form of floods, landslides, boat capasize, train accident, building collapse and rescued 4,000 human lives and evacuated 1 lakh people to safer places.


    An MoU was also signed in between NDRF and NSDC. Besides, a co-operation with Facebook took place during the programme. The highlights of the cooprtaion with facebook includes targeted geographical messaging, disaster information volunteers and community capacity building.


    On this occasion, Hon’ble chief guest also released the NDRF Souvenir and presented the trophies to the winner of Best Inter Bn. Sports competition, Inter School Competition and Distinguished Service Medals to NDRF personnel for their invaluable service.


    The Programmes was witnessed by representatives from various organizations, ministries, PMO, NDMA, NIDM, Chief of CAPFs, SDRFs and media persons.


    National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), a specialized multi skilled, humanitarian force of the country, came into existence on January 19th, 2006 has been playing a vital role in Disaster Management and Community awareness for Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) in the country.


    ******


    PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1517212) Visitor Counter : 1359