      Ministry of Science & Technology

      CSIR leveraging technology development by forging synergistic partnership with the Japanese Universities and R&D Organizations
      Posted On: 19 JAN 2018 5:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has been making endeavours to forge synergistic partnership with the Japanese Universities and Research & Development (R&D) organizations to leverage technology development in cutting edge domains. The partnership with the Hiroshima University has started bearing fruits. The technology areas for cooperation include electronics, robotics, mechatronics, advanced manufacturing, environment and intelligent transportation.


    Director General, CSIR, Dr. Girish Sahni, with President, Hiroshima University held the 1 st meeting of International Linkage Degree Program (ILDP) on January17-18, 2018 in Hiroshima, Japan. Senior representatives of other partnering Institutes namely IIT-D, IIT-B, IIM-A, BITS-Pilani, IIEST-Sibpur also participated in the meeting to promote student/researchers exchanges and R&D partnership.


    Indian Ambassador in Japan Mr. Sujan Chinoy and Dr. Girish Sahni, Director General, CSIR delivered special addresses at the event, alongside Governor of Hiroshima prefecture.


    DG, CSIR, Dr. Sahni, has led the CSIR delegation to Japan to vitalise CSIR's ongoing partnership with Japanese National Institute of Advanced Science & Technology (AIST) in Tsukuba. CSIR in collaboration with AIST, Japan is in the process of setting up a unique low cost semiconductor device fabrication scheme – Minimal Fab, which will not require setting up of costly clean room and chip fabrication facility. CSIR, with this facility, will be creating an avenue for Electronics System Design Manufacturing (ESDM) sector industries to fabricate semiconductor chips meeting the demand of IOT devices in India and abroad.


    CSIR delegation also held bilateral meetings with University of Tokyo and RIKEN Brain Science Institute to build R&D cooperation in the areas of mutual interest, aimed at translational research.


    In recent times, CSIR has accelerated its efforts for translational research addressed at unmet needs with strong stakeholder and people connect. In doing so, seamless and synergistic partnership with international R&D organizations of eminence is of prime importance for CSIR to leverage its technology development efforts. In this march of CSIR, Japan has emerged as one of the major country for desired partnerships.


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517232) Visitor Counter : 1407
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi