      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Union Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister Shri Radha Mohan Singh releases the coffee table book on mass embryo transfer
      
      Shri Radha Mohan Singh today launched a Coffee table book on mass embryo transfer by Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairy and Fisheries.
      
      
      
      Shri Singh also launched software to collect data for 20th Livestock Census.
      
      
      
      A Vision-2022 document, prepared on the basis of National Action Plan on Dairy Development, was also released by the Agriculture Minister.

      Posted On: 17 JAN 2018 8:01PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister Shri Radha Mohan Singh said that India has 30 crore Bovines, which is 18 percent of the Bovine population of the world. He further said that through traditional and scientific knowledge, and after years of hard work, today we have 42 breeds of cattle, along with Yak and Mithun, and 13 breeds of buffaloes. The Minister was speaking at release function of coffee table book on Mass embryo transfer by Department Of Animal Husbandry, Dairy, and Fisheries (DADF) in Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi.


    The Minister also launched software to collect data for 20th livestock Census and said as the part of Hon’ble Prime Minister’s Digital India initiative, computer tablets will be used for 20th Livestock Census. This software will have all the tools to prepare analytical reports and real-time monitoring of census operation.


    He said that central government has set the target of doubling farmers’ income in the next 5 years and dairy sector will play a significant role in achieving the same. DADF has prepared an Action Plan on Dairy Development to achieve this target. A Vision 2022 document, prepared on the basis of National Action Plan, was also launched by the Minister. The document includes an outline for dairy development, recommends measures to double the farmers’ income, and also focuses on ways and means of making milk and milk products pure and safe.


    The Minister said that for the conservation and enhancement, a new scheme called Rashtriya Gokul Mission was launched in December 2014. Also, National Mission on Bovine Productivity was started in November 2016 to increase production and productivity of bovine population in the country. He said DADF started many collective schemes for the growth of Indigenous breeds under Rashtriya Gokul Mission.


    He stated that among them Estrus Synchronization, which started in October 2016, was important. For the first time in the country, 1,24,000 animals were inseminated with high-quality semen of indigenous breeds through Estrus Synchronization. These animals were identified by UID and were registered on Information Network for Animal Productivity & Health (INAPH). Accordingly, to the reports received from the states, 41,353 male-female calves were produced through Estrus Synchronization.


    The agriculture minister said on October 2-10, 2017, DADH in co-operation with 12 States undertook a Mass Embryo Transfer programme in Indigenous Breeds under the scheme, National Gokul Mission. Under this programme, embryos of higher genetic merit indigenous bovines such as Sahiwal, Gir, Red Sindhi, Ongole, Deoni, and Vechur were transferred into surrogate cows. These cows were identified by UID and are under observation.


    The superior quality calves will be used for semen production at semen centres. The Minister said through the use of Embryo transfer technology (ETT), a farmer can get a 5-6 fold increase in the number of offspring, which will be free from diseases. 50 embryo transferred technology labs are being established under Rashtriya Gokul Mission. These labs will provide a new direction for the conservation and preservation of indigenous breeds.


    ***


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517016) Visitor Counter : 2280
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu