      Ministry of Tourism

      ‘Bharat Parv’ event begins Today at Red Fort, Delhi
      
      6 Days Parv to generate Patriotic Mood, Promote Rich Cultural diversity of India and to ensure participation of General Public

      Posted On: 26 JAN 2018 5:29PM by PIB Delhi

    ‘Bharat Parv’ event begins today at Red Fort (Lal Quila), Delhi as part of the Republic Day 2018 celebrations. The event has been organized by the Government of India at the Red Fort, Delhi from 26 th to 31 st January, 2018. Smt. Rashmi Verma, Secretary, Ministry of Tourism inaugurated the event today. The prime objective of organizing the event is to generate a patriotic mood, promote the rich cultural diversity of the country and to ensure wider participation of the general public.


    Bharat Parv is open for public till 10.00 pm today. From 27 th to 31 st January, 2018, the event will be open from 12.00 Noon to 10.00 pm. The event is open for public and entry is free. However, identity proof is to be carried for entry to the event. A Media Room has been set up at the venue to facilitate media persons.


    The Ministry of Tourism has been designated as the nodal Ministry for the event, the highlights of which include Display of Republic Day Parade Tableaux, Performances by the Armed Forces Bands (Static as well as dynamic), a Multi-Cuisine Food Court, Crafts Mela, Cultural Performances from different regions of the country and Photo Exhibition by the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP).


    The Cultural Performances include choreographed Folk/ Tribal Dances and Music arranged through the North Zonal Cultural Centre as well as performances by cultural troupes from the different States / UTs of the country. The Food Court has stalls set up by the States/ UTs, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) showcasing street food from different regions as well as by the Institutes of Hotel Managements and ITDC.


    The Crafts Mela with 50 stalls showcases the diverse handicrafts of the country, arranged by the State Governments and Ministry of Textiles through the office of the Development Commissioner of Handicrafts. There are Theme State Pavilions where each State is showcasing its strength along with its tourism products. DAVP has set up an exhibition on the theme “Naya Bharat Hum Karke Rahenge”. A live ‘Cookery Demonstration Area’ has been set up in the food court to promote cuisines of different States of India.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/26-01-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517942) Visitor Counter : 2686
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil