      Vice President's Secretariat

      Narendra Modi, Hamid Ansari, Dr. Manmohan Singh at Venkaiah’s Sankranti Milan
      
      The festivals of Makar Sankranti and Pongal symbolize the happiness that comes with good harvest: Vice President

      Posted On: 21 JAN 2018 6:36PM by PIB Delhi

    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, the former Vice President, Shri M. Hamid Ansari, the former Prime Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh and several Central Ministers and dignitaries have graced the Sankranti Milan, organized by the Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, here today.


    Addressing the gathering, the Vice President Shri Venkaiah Naidu said that the festival Makar Sankranti dedicated to Sun God, symbolizes ‘Uttarayan' or the beginning of the northward journey of the Sun. Celebrated with different names all over the country, the festivals of Makar Sankranti and Pongal symbolize the happiness that comes with good harvest and is a celebration of a positive transformation in people's lives, he added.


    The Vice President said that Makar Sankranti Festival is also an occasion to revitalize our lives through prayers and reverence for rivers and all living beings. He further said that on this day lakhs of people take holy dip in the sacred rivers. This is the only festival which marks the start of new season called by so many names, and in every culture the food prepared is essentially Khichdi (Lentil & Rice preparation) both Sweet (traditionally with Jaggery) and Spicy varieties, he added.


    The Vice President said that let us salute the unsung heroes on the special occasion of the harvest festival - Sankranti. He further said that let us join hands in paying tribute to the real heroes of the country, the Indian farmers for their relentless effort sweat and toil. May these festivals usher in prosperity, tranquility and happiness in our country, he added.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517348) Visitor Counter : 1601
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi