      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri felicitates winners of Republic Day Parade participants; Punjab Regiment gets best marching contingent, Maharashtra best tableau
      Posted On: 28 JAN 2018 5:10PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Mantri Smt Nirmala Sitharaman gave away Republic Day Parade 2018 best contingent and tableau awards at makeshift Rashtriya Rangshala Camp, Cariappa Parade Ground, Delhi Cantt today.


    Among the Three Services, Punjab Regiment Contingent was awarded the best marching contingent. Indo-Tibetan Border Police was awarded the best marching contingent among the para-military and other auxiliary forces.


    A total of 23 tableaux, out of which 14 from States & Union Territories, two from Ministry of External Affairs depicting long socio-cultural, religious, educational & trade relations between India & ASEAN countries and the rest of the tableaux from other Ministries/Departments participated in this year’s Republic Day Parade. Tableau from Maharashtra depicting coronation of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was awarded the first prize. Tableau from Assam depicting traditional masks and sastras begged second prize. Tableau of Chhattisgarh, which depicted Ramgarh’s ancient amphitheatre along with artistes performing dance, based on Kalidasa’s Meghadootam, was awarded third prize.


    In the category of tableaux representing Union Ministries/Departments, the best tableau award has been given to Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports for depicting ‘Khelo India’.


    In the category of school children items, South Central Zone Cultural Centre, Nagpur (Maharashtra) performing ‘Baredi Dance’ from Madhya Pradesh was awarded the first prize. However, North East Zone Cultural Centre, Dimapur (Nagaland) and Oxford Foundation School, Najafgarh, Delhi awarded consolation prizes for performing Sangrai Mog Dance of Tripura and Shikshit Bharat, Shashakt Bharat dance respectively.


    ***


    N Ao/Nampi/DK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517997) Visitor Counter : 1393
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil