      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      The Management Information System (MIS) portal for Anganwadi Services Training Programme launched by WCD Ministry today
      Posted On: 24 JAN 2018 1:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development, Shri Rakesh Srivastava launched the Management Information System (MIS) portal for Anganwadi Services Training Programme in New Delhi today. The Ministry of Women and Child Development in collaboration with National Informatics Centre (NIC), has developed a Management Information System (MIS) portal for submitting applications/estimates by NGOs for carrying out Anganwadi Services (ICDS) Training through AWTCs/MLTCs. The first phase of the portal will enable NGOs to submit proposal to the respective States/UTs. They, in turn, process the proposals and recommend requirement of funds for running the Programme in the States/UTs. The Central government would further examine the proposal and release the funds. It will ensure that funds are released timely and reach the beneficiaries for training purpose. The URL is http://icds-trg.nic.in


    The Anganwadi Services Training Programme under the Umbrella Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) Scheme is a Centrally Sponsored Scheme and the overall administration, management and monitoring of the implementation of the Scheme are being done by the respective State Government/UT Administration. The training provided to the Anganwadi Workers (AWWs)/Anganwadi Helpers (AWHs) and the Supervisors at the Anganwadi Workers Training Centres (AWTCs)/Middle Level Training Centres (MLTCs) is a part of the Anganwadi Services. AWTCs/MLTCs are run either by the respective State Governments/Union Territory Administrations or by NGOs under the supervision of respective State Governments/UT Administrations. The Government of India releases funds to the State Governments/UT Administrations for implementation of the Scheme.


    As per the directions of the NITI Aayog, NGOs/VOs are required to get themselves registered with the NGO-PS portal and they must have PAN & Aadhaar of members/office bearers of NGOs/VOs duly verified. The unique ID generated by NGO-PS portal on successful sign-up by them with the NGO-PS portal, is mandatory requirement when the NGOs/VOs approach the Central/State Government for grants.


    In September, 2017, the Ministry finalized the Comprehensive Training Guidelines for AWTCs and MLTCs and e-Learning Manual for smooth functioning and operation of training centres in various States and UTs.


    *****


    AKR/NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517598) Visitor Counter : 4030
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil