      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Jammu school children call on Union Home Minister
      Posted On: 26 JAN 2018 5:13PM by PIB Delhi


    A group of 40 school children consisting of 20 girls and 20 boys hailing from remote and far flung areas of Jammu region called on the Union Home Minister, Shri Rajnath Singh here today. The students are on a Bharat Darshan Tour from 19 th January 2018 to 30 th January 2018 organized by the BSF.


    The concept of Bharat Darshan Tours for the children from Jammu & Kashmir was started as an annual feature in the year 2000. Shri Rajesh Ranjan, SDG BSF apprised the Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh of the composition of the group. He informed that Bharat Darshan tour has widened horizons and given the children an opportunity to see the diversities of the nation.


    The children then shared their experiences of visits to different historical places and thanked the BSF and the Government of India for organizing tours of this nature.


    While addressing the children, Shri Rajnath Singh desired to communicate the experiences gained during this tour to the remote areas from where all have come. It was also told that the anti-national elements should not overpower the thoughts of national integration. A token of remembrance has been given to the Home Minister by the children.


    These children are selected for Bharat Darshan as a part of intensive civic action programme of the force in remote and backward areas of the border.


    This tour is conducted to give them insights into the rich historical, cultural and social profile of the country and the progress made in industrial, technological and scientific fields. The tour also aims at inculcating in them a sense of pride for the nation.


    As part of the programme, they visited Amber Fort, Albert Hall Museum, Junagarh Fort, Jantar Mantar and City Palace in Jaipur, Fatehpur Sikri, Taj Mahal and Agra Fort in Agra, Qutab Minar, Lotus Temple, Rastrapati Bhawan and Metro Ride and witnessed the Republic day parade at New Delhi.


    After meeting with the Home Minister, all the children will proceed to Amritsar where they will witness the Retreat Ceremony at Attari Border and also visit the historical places of Amritsar.


    Till date 1619 children from J&K have participated in BSF sponsored 58 Bharat Darshan Tours.


    *************


    BB/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517940) Visitor Counter : 1274
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil