      Ministry of Tourism

      ‘Bharat Parv’ being organized as part of Republic Day 2018 Celebrations from 26th To 31st January, 2018 Red Fort, Delhi
      
      Parv to Generate Patriotic Mood, promote rich Cultural Diversity of India and to Ensur Participation of General Public

      Posted On: 25 JAN 2018 11:30AM by PIB Delhi

    As part of the Republic Day 2018 celebrations, the ‘Bharat Parv’ event is being organized by the Government of India at the Red Fort, Delhi from 26 th to 31 st January, 2018. The prime objective of organizing the event is to generate a patriotic mood, promote the rich cultural diversity of the country and to ensure wider participation of the general public.


    Smt. Rashmi Verma, Secretary, Ministry of Tourism will inaugurate the event at 5.00 pm on 26 th January, 2018 (Republic Day) and it would be open for public till 10.00 pm. From 27 th to 31 st January, 2018, the event will be open from 12 Noon to 10.00 pm. The event is open for public and entry is free. However, identity proof is to be carried for entry to the event.


    A Media Room has been set up at the venue to facilitate media persons.


    The Ministry of Tourism has been designated as the nodal Ministry for the event, the highlights of which include Display of Republic Day Parade Tableaux, Performances by the Armed Forces Bands (Static as well as dynamic), a Multi-Cuisine Food Court, Craft Mela, Cultural Performances from different regions of the country and Photo Exhibition by the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP).


    The Cultural Performances include choreographed Fork/ Tribal Dances and Music arranged through the North Zonal Cultural Centre as well as performances by cultural troupes from the different States / UTs of the country. The Food Court will have stalls set up by the States/ UTs, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) showcasing street food from different regions as well as by the Institutes of Hotel Managements and ITDC.


    The Craft Mela with 50 stalls will showcase the diverse handicrafts of the country, arranged by the State Governments and Ministry of Textiles through the office of the Development Commissioner of Handicrafts. There will be Theme State Pavilions where each State would showcase their strengths along with tourism products. DAVP is also setting up an exhibition on the theme “Naya Bharat Hum Karke Rahenge”. A live ‘Cookery Demonstration Area’ is being set up in the food court to promote cuisines of different States of India.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/25-01-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517751) Visitor Counter : 2045
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil