      Vice President's Secretariat

      Business houses must supplement Government's efforts to achieve equitable growth: Vice President
      
      Addresses the 28th All India Builders' Convention

      Posted On: 19 JAN 2018 5:22PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu has asked builders and contractors to take part in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities in a big way, adding that Government efforts to build an equitable society must be supplemented by Private Industries through CSR.


    He was addressing the All India Builders’ Convention in Bengaluru today. Karnataka Governor Shri Vajubhai Vala, Lok Sabha MP Shri PC Mohan and others were present on the occasion.


    “The efforts of the Government to build an inclusive and equitable society must be supplemented by Private Industries. Organization like yours can play a key, constructive role in eradicating poverty, illiteracy, improving livelihoods and in making this planet a better place to live through environment-friendly measures,” he said


    The Vice President said that CSR is not mere charity or philanthropy but a responsibility towards making a difference to the lives of people. There is a huge scope to launch CSR initiative in different areas, including healthcare, education and environment. One important area is vocational training to improve skills and employability of the needy and poor, he said.


    The Vice President said that builders have a big role to play in developing the country’s Infrastructure, especially the Smart Cities project. “You are the valuable partners in building the Infrastructure of New India and work with the Government in the massive push to improve Infrastructure in the Railways and Roads Development and in boosting the Regional Connectivity through 50 new Airports,” he said.


    The Vice President further said that Flagship Schemes of Housing for All and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation will provide a huge thrust to Housing and Infrastructure growth in the country.


    ****


    PK/RKR


    

    
    (Release ID: 1517224) Visitor Counter : 1027
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi