      Vice President's Secretariat

      Reforms in the style & substance of governance must be the constant endeavour: Vice President
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2018 10:30AM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu has said that reforms in the style and substance of governance should be the constant endeavour. He was delivering the Keynote address at the 110 th Annual Convention of the Indian Officers Association (IOA) on ‘Leadership at the Frontier of Tomorrow’ in Chennai today. Tamil Nadu Governor Shri Banwarilal Purohit, Fisheries Minister of Tamil Nadu, Shri Jayakumar and other dignitaries were present at the occasion.


    The Vice President said that fruits of democracy will reach the citizens if we can combine a resolute political will with robust administrative skill. Effective service delivery deepens the roots of democracy because it ensures that all citizens, especially those whose voices are not adequately heard, participate actively in nation building, he said.


    The Vice President said that any policy is only as good as its implementation. The positive impact of policies has to be felt by the citizens. This will happen only if the administration is responsive, the decisions are judicious, the execution is swift and there is a culture of continuous monitoring and evaluation, he said.


    The Vice President said that with an efficient civil administration, India can leverage every challenge that comes its way in transforming itself into a world leader in various spheres in the years to come. As we expand globally and open our doors to the entry of multinational corporations to participate in nation’s progress, there needs to be more emphasis on efficiency, transparency and ethical compliance, he said.


    The Vice President said that public administration is no longer concerned with just implementation and monitoring of government policies. In a rapidly changing world, the administrative apparatus must be more agile than earlier. It must be innovative, humble, emphatic and objective, he said.


    ****


    PK/RKR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517030) Visitor Counter : 326
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu