      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Vice President delivers 4th R.V. Raju Memorial Lecture on 'National Security Challenges in 21st Century'
      
      We must be eternally vigilant against forces which are inimical to India: Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu
      
      Union Home Minister commends NIA for 95% conviction rate
      Posted On: 24 JAN 2018 8:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that we must be eternally vigilant against forces which are inimical to India and want to derail the country’s onward march. He was delivering the 4 th R.V. Raju Memorial Lecture on 'National Security Challenges in 21st Century', organized by National Investigation Agency (NIA), here today.


    The Vice President said that the national security environment in India is determined by its geographical attributes, socio-economic milieu as well as by regional and global developments. He further said that the national security challenges can be broadly categorised as internal challenges and external challenges, both of which are closely and intricately intertwined. The internal challenges include the growing radicalization in our society, separatist movements, insurgencies, communalism and Maoist violence, he added.


    The Vice President said that India is now the fastest growing major economy in the world and India needs to grow faster to provide basic means of livelihood and decent opportunities to all its citizens. The need of the hour is to ensure that India remains peaceful so that the process of all round development continues unhindered, he added.


    The Vice President said that United Nations has from time to time adopted various resolutions to combat global terrorism in all its formats. However, despite being members of the UN some member states continue to flout these resolutions by nurturing and providing support to terrorist organizations and it is time for the global community to take note of the situation and act against such errant member states, he added.


    The Vice President reminded the recent investigations by the NIA in tracing and tracking the funding of the separatist groups and leaders have successfully disrupted the supply of funds to the separatist groups. He further said that this has led to a significant decrease in the incidents of terrorism as well as decline in the subversive activities being carried out by the separatists. He hoped that the NIA would continue to focus on all the aspects of financing of terrorism and effectively disrupt the channels and networks of funding to the terrorist organizations.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh said that terrorism is a big threat in today’s world. He further mentioned, despite some countries’ support to it, our security forces are fully competent to overcome it. Referring to the track record of achieving 95 percent conviction rate by the NIA, he commended the agency saying NIA was “better than the best” and exhorted it to further improve the figure to 99-100 percent. The Home Minister expressed satisfaction at the fact that stone pelting incidents in Jammu and Kashmir were successfully tackled by our security forces including due to the role of NIA. He also asserted that there is no doubt that Jammu and Kashmir would remain an integral part of India. He said that security agencies have strived very hard in the North East region and were able to achieve an 85 percent decline in the terrorist incidents there. The Home Minister said that NIA should develop technology and competence to deal with the threats emanating from cyberspace. This should be done to develop professional and scientific investigative tools, he added. He also emphasised that NIA should improve cooperation with Federal investigative agencies of other countries to learn and share best practices.


    Director General, NIA Shri Y. C. Modi highlighted the achievements of NIA. He said that investigations have been completed in 185 cases by the NIA and chargesheets have been filed in 148 cases. He also elaborated upon the regional offices being set up by the NIA.


    On the occasion, following NIA officials were conferred Police Medals for Meritorious Service (PMMS) and President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service (PPMDS):

     1. Shri Alok Mittal, IG(Adm/Policy): PPMDS for ID-2016
     2. Shri Satyanand Pandey, SP(Adm): PMMS for ID-2016
     3. Shri A.D. Negi, SP, NIA Hqrs: PMMS for ID-2017
     4. Shri Dhan Ram Singh, ASP: PMMS for RD-2017
     5. Shri P Vikraman, Dy. SP: PMMS for ID-2016
     6. Shri C. Radhakrishan Pillai, Dy. SP: PPMDS for ID-2017
     7. Shri B B Pathak, lnsp: PMMS for ID-2016
     8. Shri A. Narsimhulu Naidu: PMMS for RD-2017

    The Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, Chief of Army Staff General Bipin Rawat, DGs and former DGs of CAPFs and senior officers of Ministry of Home Affairs were also present on the occasion.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517725) Visitor Counter : 1229
    
    
    
    
    

8.