      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      PHD Chamber discusses Northeast industry prospects with DoNER Minister Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 29 JAN 2018 8:11PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, led by its National President Shri Anil Khaitan and Senior National Vice President Shri Rajeev Talwar, called on Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today and held a meeting to discuss the Northeast industry prospects.


    Dr Jitendra Singh updated the members of the delegation about the various steps taken in last three years to bring in ease of business and to exploit the unexplored potential of the region. He regretted that, in the past, nearly 40% of the fruit in the region went waste because of lack of storage and transportation facilities. However, he said, with improvement in connectivity and a network of road and railway being spread across all the North Eastern States, this constraint could be overcome to a great extent, he added.


    Dr Jitendra Singh also referred to the introduction of “Venture fund” by the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) for young Start-Ups. This initiation, he said, has received enthusiastic response from new entrepreneur.


    In order to further expose the world community to the vast business potential of North East India, Dr Jitendra Singh said, a mega Business Summit, possibly the first of its kind, is being held at Guwahati on 3rd of February.


    The members of the delegation briefed Dr Jitendra Singh about a series of seminars organised by them on the subject of “Multiplying farmers' income : Opportunities in Animal Husbandry – potential for export----Focus North East”. Such seminars were held at Guwahati (Assam), Shillong (Meghalaya) and Agartala (Tripura). Among the recommendations put forward was the suggestion that farmers in the North Eastern region should follow the strategies of North and South Indian farmers who generate additional income through different activities on the farm like cattle and goat rearing, fish farming etc. New scientific techniques could be adopted and Government could open a facilitation centre for prospective entrepreneurs.


    The PHD Chambers leaders also informed the Minister about a series of events planned by them in near future which include a seminar on “Mega food Processing” at Imphal, a seminar on technologies for developing food processing at Aizawl, and a seminar on developing young entrepreneurs at Itanagar.


    Dr Jitendra Singh assured all facilitatory support for these initiatives from the Ministry of DoNER. He said, the officials in the DoNER Ministry will coordinate with all the eight states of the region so as to seek maximum gainful outcomes from these initiatives .


    *****

    BB/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518263) Visitor Counter : 982