      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister visits UT Chandigarh
      Posted On: 30 JAN 2018 8:07PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister Shri Rajnath Singh visited the Union Territory Chandigarh today. During his day long visit, the Home Minister launched new projects and also interacted with the officers of the Chandigarh Administration.


    Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurated the multi-storeyed 300 bedded Infosys Foundation Red Cross ‘SARAI’ at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh. The Sarai aims to help the ailing patients & their caregivers who are from economically weaker sections. The land was made available by the PGIMER to Red Cross Society, Chandigarh who signed an MoU with Infosys Foundation to construct the Sarai. The Union Home Minister had laid the foundation stone for the construction of the Sarai on 9th September, 2016. Fitted with modern energy saving and energy efficient equipments, this facility is likely to ease the hardships of visiting patients and their families at PGI. The Sarai consists of 300 Beds, 36 Dormitories and 13 Private rooms. There are lifts and ramps available making it easily accessible for the differently-abled. There’s a separate wing on the 3rd floor exclusively for women. The charges for Dormitory are Rs.100 per person per day and for a Private Room is Rs. 500 per day.


    Later on, the Union Home Minister launched the Administrative Block & Auditorium in GMCH, Sector-16, Chandigarh. Built at a cost of Rs 12 crores, the Administrative Block covers an area of 54,537 sq.ft that has five floors and a basement. The Auditorium has been built on an area of 10,510 sq.ft at a cost of Rs 4.50 crores. The double storey Auditorium consists of an Administration office library, foyer and green rooms.


    During the visit, Shri Rajnath Singh held a meeting with the senior officials of Chandigarh Administration. The Home Minister was apprised about the major achievements made by Chandigarh in the past and the future needs of the city through a presentation. The Home Minister lauded the efforts of the Chandigarh Administration for consistent development and achievements made by the city beautiful. He further assured on exploring the possibilities of fulfilling the demands of the city for the prosperity of its citizens.


    The Governor of Punjab & Administrator U.T Chandigarh, Shri V.P. Singh Bandore and Member of Parliament, U.T, Chandigarh, Smt. Kirron Kher, were also present.


    ******


    BB/NK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1518367) Visitor Counter : 1481
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu