      Ministry of Tourism

      Letters of Intent Under ‘Adopt a Heritage’ Project Handed over to 17 Agencies for 62 Monuments at Closing Ceremony of ‘‘Bharat Parv’’ Today
      
      6 Days Cultural Extrtavagenza “Bharat Parv” Concludes

      Posted On: 31 JAN 2018 7:52PM by PIB Delhi

    ‘Bharat Parv’ concluded at the Red Fort (Lal Quila), Delhi today in the presence of Shri K.J. Alphons, Minister of State (I/C) for Tourism and Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State (I/C) for Culture. The Parv was organized by the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India at the Red Fort, Delhi from 26 th to 31 st January, 2018.


    During the closing ceremony, under “Adopt a Heritage: Apni Dharohar, Apni Pehchaan” project, Letters of Intent for 40 monuments to 9 agencies of Phase-II and Letters of Intent for 22 monuments to 8 agencies of Phase-III were handed over by the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Tourism.Ministry of Tourism in collaboration with Ministry of Culture and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), State/UTs Governments and Local bodies launched “Adopt a Heritage: Apni Dharohar, Apni Pehchaan” project to preserve the rich cultural and natural heritage and to promote tourism across the length and breadth of our country.


    In addition, the MOUs were signed with Adventure Tour Operators Association of India (ATAOI) and State of Jammu & Kashmir for 2 natural sites: (1) Mt Stok Kangri trek route, Laddakh, J&K; and (2) Gangotri Temple Area & Trail to Gaumukh, Uttarakhand.


    Addressing on the occasion, Shri K.J. Alphons said that the “Adopt a Heritage” project plans to entrust heritage sites to the private sector companies, public sector companies and individuals for the development of tourist amenities. The basic and advanced amenities in the tourist destinations would be provided by them. He called upon people to actively take part in the Swachhta Abhiyan for cleanliness in our tourist destinations.


    Dr. Mahesh Sharma in his address said that the “Adopt a Heritage” project began with select ASI ticketed monuments and has now expanded to other natural and cultural sites across the country.


    People in large number visited the Bharat Parv daily to celebrate the diverse and fascinating culture, cuisine and handicrafts. Today on the last day, the Army, Air Force and Navy presented Static Band and Army also displayed Dynamic Band. The artists from Karnataka presented ‘Veeragase, Jagaligea etc’, the artists from Punjab presented ‘Bhangra’; the artists from Assam presented ‘Bihu, Bhor Tal Nritya’; and the artists from Andhra Pradesh presented ‘Garagalu’; The Tableau artists who participated in the Republic Day parade-2018 also performed. At last, the artists of North Zone Cultural Centre (NZCC) presented a Choreographed performance on Pan India Basis.


    The Ministry of Tourism was designated as the nodal Ministry for the event, the highlights of which included Display of Republic Day Parade Tableaux, Performances by the Armed Forces Bands (Static as well as dynamic), a Multi-Cuisine Food Court, Crafts Mela, Cultural Performances from different regions of the country and a Photo Exhibition on the theme “Naya Bharat Hum Karke Rahenge” by the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP). A live ‘Cookery Demonstration Area’ was set up in the food court to promote cuisines of different States of India. The Food Court had stalls set up by the States/ UTs, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) showcasing street food from different regions as well as by the Institutes of Hotel Managements and ITDC.


    The Crafts Mela with 50 stalls showcased the diverse handicrafts of the country, arranged by the State Governments and Ministry of Textiles through the office of the Development Commissioner of Handicrafts. There wereTheme State Pavilions where each State was showcasingits strength along with its tourism products.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/31.01.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518481) Visitor Counter : 1387