      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      MoS Dr Jitendra Singh visits river Devika project site in Udhampur
      Posted On: 30 JAN 2018 7:42PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh visited the site of River Devika Cleaning Project in Udhampur today, which has been included in Government of India’s National River Conservation Project (NRCP).


    
    He was accompanied by Member of Parliament Shri Shamsher Singh Manhas, Deputy Commissioner Shri Ravinder Kumar and other senior officers. He was informed that the cleaning process around river Devika had already started and the civil work of construction of cremation ghats etc, will be undertaken after the appraisal of the DPR by IIT experts, which may take some more time.


    Earlier in the morning, Dr Jitendra Singh arrived at the venue of the 3-day “Vision 2018” exhibition, where he went around each of the stalls depicting achievements of different Ministries and Departments over the last 3 years of the Union Government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    Addressing the students on the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh urged upon them to spend sufficient time in stalls depicting achievements of ISRO and other scientific departments. This, he said, might promote their hidden aptitude for scientific research and work.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said, in the field of space technology, India has covered an incredible journey, beginning from singing of hymns of "Chandamama" to achieving a supremacy and credibility wherein even the most advanced nations of the world like USA and Russia today approach Indian scientists to launch their satellites from Indian Launching Stations like Sriharikota.


    
    Dr Jitendra Singh said that we have vindicated our pledge to use Atomic Energy for peaceful purposes and today India has set an example as a nation with nuclear energy being major source for its ever-increasing needs.


    In the field of economy, Dr Jitendra Singh said, under Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the entire world is looking up to India to give a lead. It was evident more than enough at World Economic Forum at Davos.


    *****


    BB/NK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1518358) Visitor Counter : 1566