      NITI Aayog

      Global Recognition for Dr Vinod Paul, Member, NITI Aayog WHO confers the prestigious IhsanDoğramacı Family Health Foundation Prize
      Posted On: 30 JAN 2018 2:17PM by PIB Delhi


    Dr Vinod Paul, Member, NITI Aayog has been awarded the prestigious IhsanDoğramacı Family Health Foundation Prize by the World Health Organisation (WHO). He is the first Indian to receive this global honour, which is conferred in recognition to his services in the field of family health.


    The award, confirmed by the WHO Executive Board on 27 th January, will be presented to Dr Paul formally at the World Health Assembly to be held in Geneva, Switzerland in May 2018.He was chosen unanimously from six other shortlisted candidates from Algeria, China, Malaysia, Mexico, Russian Federation, Uzbekistan.


    The WHO Board resolution acknowledges Dr Paul as an internationally renowned researcher, clinician, educator and public health advocate in the area of family health, with a special focus on newborn health. He has made distinguished contributions towards improving the health and well-being of families, especially in developing countries.


    Dr Paul’s efforts brought the long-neglected issue of newborn health to the centre-stage of strategies for the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), through significant contributions to important documents used globally on family health.


    Instrumental in establishing the Partnership for Maternal, Newborn and Child Health in 2005-06, Dr Paul is recognized world over as a leading expert in universal health coverage and human resources for health. He has published numerous articles on various issues, including on women’s, children’s and adolescents’ health, in international peer-reviewed journals as well as several books and monographs. His book on paediatrics is the standard textbook for medical students in India and several other countries.


    A well-known name in public health circles in India, Dr Paul has played a key role in formulating national child health guidelines and programmes in the country. Prior to joining as Member, NITI Aayog, Dr Paul was head of the Department of Pediatrics at AIIMS, New Delhi.


    *****


    AKT/SH


    

    
    (Release ID: 1518291) Visitor Counter : 2373
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil