      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      MoS Dr Jitendra Singh conferred Honorary Doctorate
      Posted On: 31 JAN 2018 6:48PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh was conferred the degree of Honorary Doctorate by Amity University in recognition of his lifetime achievements in the field of academics, research and public life, in Noida today. He was awarded the Degree of Doctorate of Science (D.Sc.) by the University.


    The citation read out for Dr Jitendra Singh, during the ceremony, described him as a versatile personality, simultaneously known as an outstanding academician, researcher, medical teacher, author and brilliant orator. The various awards received by him in the past include "Gold Medal for Oration" from Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education & Research (JIPMER) Puducherry and coveted “Jamna Devi Gian Devi Award" for journalism.


    The citation described Dr Jitendra Singh as an author of eight books and three monograms on various aspects of Diabetes. He has written chapters on Diabetes in leading text books of Medicine and before becoming a Minister, he consecutively wrote a chapter on Diabetes in twelve successive editions of the prestigious "API Textbook of Medicine" published by the Association of Physicians of India.


    Among the Diabetes awareness books written by Dr Jitendra Singh, one of the books titled "Diabetes Made Easy" was included in the Best-seller section of the World Book Fare held at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi.


    Dr Jitendra Singh’s pioneering work on "Stress Diabetes in Kashmiri Migrants" was hailed by the World Health Organization (WHO). He was also a member of the DIPSY Group of researchers who finalized the "Guidelines for Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy" and the same Guidelines were then approved for referral by the WHO. As a teacher of Medicine and Diabetes, Dr Jitendra Singh has been a guide for thesis to nearly two dozen scholars.


    The citation also referred to Dr Jitendra Singh’s contribution as a Parliamentarian and a Minister in the Government of India, and lauded his brilliant interventions and presentations in the Parliament. It also commended Dr Jitendra Singh’s impressive handling of a number of Departments and Ministries under his charge in the Government of India. His hard work, focused approach and down-to-earth attitude had endeared to all cross sections of society, said the citation. The citation also described Dr Jitendra Singh as someone highly revered for his unassuming nature, practical and human approach, both in words and deeds, which makes him a "true son" of India.


    In his acceptance speech, Dr Jitendra Singh acknowledged the recognition offered by Amity University, which is the first-of-its-kind International University originating from India. He said, from the emphasis on enhancing availability of education at the time of independence, today the focus is on quality education and to this objective, the Amity has distinguished itself with its alumni spread across the globe and earning laurels in different areas of work. Dr Jitendra Singh said that the present generation of students is fortunate because it has the opportunity to be a part of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi's "New India" mission and they have all the advantages on their side to contribute to the ascent of India as a global power.


    ******


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518458) Visitor Counter : 733