      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President meets and greets the Tableaux Artistes and Tribal Guests
      
      Tableaux Artistes perform at Vice President’s residence

      Posted On: 28 JAN 2018 6:51PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu and Smt. Usha Naidu have met and greeted the Tableaux Artistes and Tribal Guests who participated in the Republic Day Parade – 2018, in their residence here today. About 2000 Tableaux Artistes and Tribal Guests including the officials and support staff have spent about two hours with Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu and Smt. Usha Naidu.


    The Vice President said that performance of different artistes from different part of the country at one platform reflect the unique identity of our nation - 'Unity in diversity'. This brings the national harmony and universal brotherhood, he added.


    The Tableaux Artistes have performed different cultural events, which were performed during the Republic Parade – 2018, before the Vice President and hundreds of other invitees. Artistes from Assam, Jammu & Kashmir, Tripura, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh have participated in the performances.


    The Members of Ministry of Sports have performed breath-stopping ‘Mallakhamba’ Sport, which impressed everyone present there.


    The Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu and Smt. Usha Naidu have met each and everyone present in their residence. The artistes and officials who have met the Vice President and his spouse were from Gujarat, CPWD, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Kerala, All India Radio, ITBP, Chhattisgarh, Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Jammu & Kashmir, Maharashtra, Tripura, Income Tax Department, Madhya Pradesh, Assam, ICAR, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Ministry of External Affairs, Karnataka, Ministry of Sports, Tractor Drivers, Army Personnel at RR Camp, Photographers & Civil Card Drivers and Ministry of Defence Officials.


    The Vice President arranged Tea and Snacks to all the visitors at his residence.


    ***


    AKT/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518005) Visitor Counter : 1652
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil