      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Tableau of Youth Affairs & Sports Ministry adjudged best among all Ministries
      Posted On: 29 JAN 2018 12:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Tableau of the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports for Republic Day 2018 has been adjudged as the best Tableau among all the Tableaux of the Ministries/Departments of the Government of India. In a ceremony in New Delhi yesterday (28.1.2018), Shri Rahul Bhatnagar, Secretary (Sports) received the Trophy and Certificate for best Tableau from Hon’ble Raksha Mantri Smt Nirmala Seetharaman. Congratulating the team, Minister of State (I/C), Youth Affairs and Sports, Col Rajyavardhan Rathore tweeted “CONGRATS @IndiaSports @YASMinistry @KheloIndia for being adjudged the best tableau in the #RepublicDay Parade! It is a proud moment for team MYAS. It motivates us to keep giving our best to the nation! A BIG thanks to the people for all their love & support!”


    Theme of the Tableau of the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports was Khelo India. “Khelo India, Jo Khelega Woh Khilege (Play India! The one who plays sport is the one who blossoms),” the legend on a side of the float said. A collage of photographs of India’s sporting heroes including Olympic medalists celebrated their success, inspiring millions of youngsters to take to sport was also on the side panels.


    A small team of malkhamb exponents, dressed in traditional attire, braved the chill to showcase the ancient Indian sport. A couple of boxers sparred in a ring with a referee watching the proceedings with an eagle eye. Women weightlifters on two sides of the boxing ring and a Games flame were also on the float. At the tail-end of the float was a replica of the iconic Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium with the figure of legendary archer Arjuna on top of the revolving world.


    The presence of a TV cameraman on the float, was testimony to the importance of the media in telling stories of human endeavor and valour. Sports equipment, including a pair of boxing gloves, a football, a cricketer’s helmet, a tennis racquet, were on display


    The inaugural Khelo India School Games will be held from January 31 to February 8 in five venues that have staged the Asian Games 1982 and Commonwealth Games 2010. More than 3200 athletes in 16 disciplines will vie for 198 gold medals. The Khelo India School Games, to be broadcast live by the Star Sports network, would expectedly be the first step in a seamless journey to the podium .


    Kheo India Programme, which is a flagship programme of the Department of Sports, has been launched in the year 2017-18. Khelo India program aims at integration of sports with education and broadbasing of sports in the country, eventually leading to excellence in Sports. Khelo India program includes creation of Sports infrastructure, coach development, identification and nurturing of sports talent, hosting sports competitions, promoting physical fitness of school children, sports among women, tribals, differently abled and sports for peace and development.


    ***


    PP/DP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518027) Visitor Counter : 4268