      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      NHAI provides toilets at 192 toll plazas; remaining 180 toll plazas to be covered by March 2019
      Posted On: 31 JAN 2018 3:43PM by PIB Delhi


      The National Highways Authority of India has provided toilet facilities at 192 toll plazas across the country, while the remaining 180 toll plazas will be covered by the end of March, 2019. Under the Government of India’s flagship programmes Swachh Bharat Mission, NHAI is providing separate ladies and gents toilets on both upside and down side of each of its 372 toll plazas, and also placing litterbins and hoardings carrying the Swachhta message along with message discouraging littering at these sites.


      NHAI has observed both the current Swachhta Pakhwada from 16 th -31 st January as well as the earlier one from 16-31 st July, 2017, and proposes to achieve the target of providing toilet facilities at every toll plaza during the final year of the Swachh Bharat Mission . The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways is monitoring the progress in this regard.


      The following activities have been undertaken under the current Swachhta Pakhwada between 16 th -31 st January, 2018 at all the toll plazas along National Highways:

                                                                                                                           
i.) Making toll plazas free of open defaecation                                                                            
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
ii.) Provision of temporary toilets at toll plazas during the Pakhwada                                                     
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
iii.) Swachhta Pakhwada Awareness Workshops                                                                                
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
iv.) Making all road-side Dhabas litter free with well-maintained hygiene                                                  
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
v.) Special cleanliness drive/Mega road cleaning event/Shramdan                                                            
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
vi.) Generation of less waste during road building                                                                         
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
vii.) Issuing circular to the companies to maintain adequate sanitation facilities during the road and bridge construction.
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
viii.) Litter free construction sites                                                                                      
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
ix.) Display of Swachhta message through banners, posters and hoardings.                                                   
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
x.) Tree plantation and ensuring maintenance and growth                                                                    
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
xi.) Awards for functionaries of SBM                                                                                       
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           
xii.) Outdated posters along highways to be removed as these add to clutter and also distract road users.                  
                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                           

      ***


      NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518418) Visitor Counter : 1260
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi