      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      More than 20 lakh people visit Hunar Haat so far
      MoS in PMO Dr. Jitendra Singh and MoS (IC), Minority Affairs, Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi visit Hunar Haat
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2017 5:51PM by PIB Delhi


    The second “Hunar Haat” of Minority Affairs Ministry, has become a hit among the visitors and more than 20 lakh people have visited it so far.


    Union Minister of State in PMO and MoS (IC) for Development of North Eastern Region Dr Jitender Singh and Union Minister for Minority Affairs (Independent Charge) and Parliamentary Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today visited “Hunar Haat” at Baba Kharak Singh Marg, Cannaught Place New Delhi.


    Dr Singh visited various stalls of handicrafts from across the country and encouraged the master artisans. He congratulated Minority Affairs Ministry for the success of “Hunar Haat”. Dr Singh said that “Hunar Haat” will provide an opportunity for the development of traditional arts/crafts and will encourage and promote master traditional artisans.


    On the occasion, Shri Naqvi said that the second “Hunar Haat”, based on the theme of “Craft Aur Cuisine Ka Sangam”, has received tremendous response from people from all walks of life.. Besides handicrafts and various dishes, the people are also enjoying various cultural programmes, Qawwali, Gazal.


    Facebook page of “Hunar Haat” was launched on 16 th Feb, 2017. It contains information about the two “Hunar Haat”, which have been organized by the Ministry. It also has details about states where the artisans have come from; detail of handicraft, other items and food. Photos and videos of “Hunar Haat” are also available. The people can also see all the activities of “Hunar Haat” live on this Facebook page.


    More than 100 artisans and more than 30 culinary experts from about all the states and Union Territories are participating at about 130 stalls in the second “Hunar Haat”. The selected artisans include several state and national level awardees. The Minority Affairs Ministry has been working out on a plan to establish “Hunar Hub” in all the states where programmes such as “Hunar Haat” and other cultural events will be organized.


    After huge success of two “Hunar Haat”, the Ministry is also planning to organize more such events at large scale in various parts of the country. These “Hunar Haat” will be organized at Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Patna, Guwahati and other places in near future.


    ****


    BCK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483063) Visitor Counter : 214