      Ministry of Home Affairs

      PASSING OUT PARADE OF THE 69TH BATCH OF IPS PROBATIONERS
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2017 6:19PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Union Minister for Home Affairs, Shri Rajnath Singh said that, honesty, hard work, positive attitude and judicious decision making are the four qualities, that a police officer must possess to serve the people better. Addressing the passing out parade of the 69 th batch of IPS probationers at the NPA here today, Shri Singh said that police officers have the responsibility of securing the lives of citizens and protecting the unity and integrity of the country. They must ensure that they are accessible to the people at all times, and address their problems promptly, he said. An officer with these qualities is respected by one and all, he said. He urged the officers to be role models for the youth of the country.


    The Minister stressed that our country is facing challenges from terror outfits like ISIS, terrorism in J & K and North East. Cyber crime, spreading of fake news to mislead people and threats from atomic weapons, should be efficiently countered by the police force by means of modern technology. The centre has sanctioned Rs. 25,000 crore for the modernization of police force, last month he added. He expressed confidence that the IPS officers, will rise up to the expectations of the people and serve them as per their constitutional duty.


    Shri Singh recalled the services of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, the architect of United India, on the eve of his 142 nd birth anniversary. He commended Sardar Patel’s role in framing the structure of Civil Services in independent India.


    Shri Singh congratulated the Police Academy for its inspirational role in training the IPS officers, to whom the people look up to. Shri Singh announced Rs. 5 crore grant to the NPA welfare fund. 136 officer trainees including five officers from Bhutan, five from Nepal and four from Maldives completed 45 weeks of basic training at the NPA. The batch also comprises of 22 lady officers.


    Earlier, Smt. D. R. Doley Barman Director welcomed the gathering. Shri Devendra Subedi, Additional Inspector General of Police/Executive Director, Nepal Police Academy, Col. Rinzin Dorji of Royal Bhutan Police and Shri Ali Sujau, ACP of Maldivian Police Force senior and retired police officers were also present.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507476) Visitor Counter : 126
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu