      PIB Headquarters

      32ND SARDAR VALLABHBHAI PATEL MEMORIAL LECTURE DELIVERED BY SHRI KAILASH SATYARTHI
      Posted On: 27 OCT 2017 7:03PM by PIB Hyderabad


    The 32 nd Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Memorial Lecture was delivered on 27 th October, 2017 at 1115 hrs. by Shr Kailash Satyarthi, Nobel Laureate, on the topic “Role of Police in Safe Childhoods – Safe India” at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy, Hyderabad. He paid respects at the Martyrs’ Memorial by laying a wreath and then proceeded to deliver the lecture at the Academy Auditorium along with Mrs. D.R. Doley Barman, Director of the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy.


    He addressed a combined session of 122 IPS Probationers of 69 RR and 14 foreign Probationers currently undergoing basic training at the Academy. His message was filled with sensitization and inspiration to the budding young Probationers. He honestly expressed that a child feel safest when surrounded by police and he also revealed that he is the proud son of a policeman. He explained, on the one hand how civilization and slavery cannot go hand-in-hand and on the other hand, he explained the organic linkages between child labour & exploitation; poverty; unemployment and illiteracy. He exhorted for an urgent need for child-friendly policing and also gave the following 7 steps for making a safe India for safety of children through sensitizing the police:-


    1. P olicy initiatives.


    2. I nstitutional mechanism in place.


    3. E ducation.


    4. C apacity building to eradicate this social evil.


    5. A ccountability of the authorities in particular and citizens in general.


    6. T echnological interventions.


    7. S ocietal engagement


    Finally he gave a clarion call to the young aspiring police probationers “ to save India by doing a bit by everybody which can make children safe in the world ”. Later, Shri Satyarthi also interacted with the IPS Probationers in the Central IPS Mess of the Academy.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507322) Visitor Counter : 15
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu