      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Agricultural reforms can help in doubling the income of the farmers of the NE : L R Vishwanath
      
      PIB Guwahati Organizes webinar with media persons on recent reforms in Agriculture sector in Guwahati

      Posted On: 08 JUN 2020 4:59PM by PIB Guwahati

    Government of India has announced in the recent cabinet decisions that essential commodities will be viewed differently. Government has now brought in freedom for the farmers through these decisions, says Shri. L. R Vishwanath, Head of North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , Govt of India . The recent agricultural reforms have the potential of doubling the income of the farmers of the NE, he added. Media plays a key role in disseminating vital information regarding various governmental schemes to the people in this crisis situation, he emphasiz ed while addressing the opening session of the Webinar organized by Press Information Bureau in Guwahati today. The Webinar has been organised with an aim to set the narratives of the decisions through resource persons associated with the field of agriculture to the journalist so that it would reach to the people.


    The Press Information Bureau, Guwahati organised the Webinar for journalists from across the North East region & experts from Agricultural University enlightened the media personnel about the recent cabinet decisions on agricultural reforms. Around 26 journalists participated in the workshop through video conference.


    Dr. B.C Deka, Director, Agriculture Technology Application Research Institute , ICAR, Umiam spoke on the prospect of Northeast Agriculture in post COVID scenario. In his address Shri. Deka asserted that because of pro-active policy measures taken by the Union Government very impressive growth in agricultural sector in North East can be seen in recent days.


    Dr. B.C Deka


    Dr. Nivedita Deka, Prof. Dept. of Agricultural Economics & Farm Management, Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat talked about Agricultural scenario of Assam in post COVID scenario. In her address Smt. Deka highlighted about COVID challenges for agriculture and emergence of alternatives. Dr. S. Basanta Singh, Director of Instruction, Central Agriculture University discussed about Agricultural Marketing Reforms in India.


    Dr. Nivedita Deka


    Dr. S. Basanta Singh


    Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB Guwahati in her welcome address, said that India lives in its villages and the main aim of the workshop is that the developmental schemes for the welfare of the farmers must reach to the people. Smt. Smita Saikia, Media and Communication, Press Information Bureau moderated the Webinar.


    *****************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1630228) Visitor Counter : 47