      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Union Petroleum Minister visits Baghjan alongwith Assam CM
      
      Both Centre and State acting together to find solution: Pradhan
      
      Affected people would be provided maximum compensation and rehabilitated: Dharmandra Pradhan
      Posted On: 14 JUN 2020 6:38PM by PIB Guwahati


      Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Hon’ble Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas & Minister of Steel along with Shri Sarbananda Sonowal, Hon’ble Chief Minister of Assam, Shri Rameswar Teli, Minister of State for Ministry of Food Processing Industries, Shri Chandra Mohan Patowary, Hon’ble Minister of Industries & Commerce, Govt. of Assam, ShriAtul Bora, Minister of Agriculture and Veterinary, Govt. of Assam, Shri Prasanta Phukan, MLA Dibrugarh, Shri Rituparna Baruah, MLA Lahowal, Shri Bhaskar Pegu, DC, Tinsukia, Shri Siladitya Chetia, SP, Tinsukia, Shri S C Mishra, CMD & Functional Directors of OIL with other dignitaries visited Baghjan today to take stock of thesituation at ground zero and the ongoing efforts being undertaken to cap the well.


      Hon’ble Minister, ShriPradhan visited the site and had detail discussion with the team from OIL & ONGC and experts from M/s Alert Disaster Control. He also visited 3 relief camps and had a detailed interaction with the people and assured them that they will be adequately compensated for their losses and action will be taken on the people responsible for the incident. Honbl’e CM of Assam, Shri Sarbananda Sonowal also spoke with the people of the camps and assured them that all their concerns and grievances will be addressed by the Government. He said that both the central and state governments had been constantly monitoring the whole situation and the damages were being assessed and assured that people would be given maximum compensation for their losses. Both the central and state governments were standing firmly with the people of Baghjan in this moment of crisis and would do everything to alleviate difficulties of the people, he said.


      Speaking on the occasion, Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that he made the visit to Baghjan following the direction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ministry had been monitoring the whole situation constantly. He also said that he was in touch with Chief Minister Sonowal over phone since the incident broke out and both the central and state governments were making all out efforts to bring the situation under control and douse the fire. He assured that the affected people would be provided maximum compensation for their losses and asked the people to extend their full cooperation to the government in controlling the gas well fire.


      As informed by OIL Officials the Environmental Impact Assessment in the vicinity of the area through a NABET accredited firm is in progress. A team comprising members from M/s Alert, ONGC & OIL CMT is at well site for assessment of site preparation for well control operation.


      Relief materials, viz. Bed sheet, Mosquito Net, Mattress, Sanitary kit, Hygiene kits for women were distributed by OIL in 8 relief camps and distribution for the rest of the camps are in progress. The sanitary napkins, hygiene kits, baby care kits & disinfectants were distributed under OIL’s CSR Project Arogya. Besides distribution, awareness on health for all with special focus on menstrual hygiene and hygiene of babies was carried out by the OIL CSR team, as informed by the OIL Official source. OIL officials are also assigned to the relief camps are closely monitoring all activities related to the camps, viz. food, lodging, lighting, hygiene, toilet, drinking water and medical requirements with the help of District Administration and Local Organisations/Associations.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1631547) Visitor Counter : 11