      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Webinar on Yoga in Times of Coronavirus Organised by PIB, Guwahati
      
      Yoga is the best solution to break the mental drudgery during Corona times: L. R. Viswanath, HoD, NE Zone, Ministry of I&B
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2020 5:38PM by PIB Guwahati


    Marking the celebration of 6th International Yoga day and recognizing importance of Yoga in helping people deal with increased stress due to the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today organized a Webinar on ‘Yoga in Times of Coronavirus’ at the office of Directorate General, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, North East Zone. The Webinar brought together all the offices of Directorate General, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting of North, East, South, West, North east Zone, Yoga experts from prominent Yoga Organisations and Journalists across the country.“


    Yoga is the gift of India to the humanity”, said Shri L. R. Viswanath, Head of North East Zone, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting while giving his welcome note in the Webinar today. Speaking about the purpose of Yoga, he said that negative thoughts can be arrested if one does yoga regularly. He also said that in this COVID time there is lot of monotony, depression, negativity and anxieties and there is no better solution than practicing yoga.


    Gracing the webinar as a yoga Expert from North East, Shri Subhashish Kar, Yoga expert, Board of Sports, Assam, said in his inaugural speech that Yoga can develop human being at physical, mental and social level. “Corona is bringing stress and strain and Yoga is the only system that can help reduce it.” He appreciated Press Information Bureau for conducting this webinar on Yoga to reach people in far places during this time of pandemic.


    Today’s Webinar had participation of Zonal heads of East, West, North and South Zones apart from that of North East Zone under the Ministry of I&B. The officials from each zone spoke about the contribution of their respective zones in promoting Yoga and they also highlighted the scenario of Yoga in the states under each zone. Shri Manish Desai, Director General, West Zone; Shri R. N. Mishra, Director General, East Zone; Shri S. Venkateswar, Director General, South Zone; Mrs. Devpreet Singh, Additional Director General (Incharge), North Zone and Shri S.N. Pradhan, Additional Director General, Imphal, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting were the officials that attended the Webinar.


    The technical sessions of the Webinar was attended by Yoga experts from various reputed Yoga organisations of the country. They enlightened the participants about the benefits of yoga in individual’s life especially at this time of COVID-19 pandemic. They also gave an in depth knowledge on self enlightment through Yoga.


    The Webinar was summed up by Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati. She expressed her gratitude to everyone who participated in the Webinar and made it successful.


    Earlier in the day, a Yoga session was also held in the premises of the office of the Directorate General, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Guwahati. The Yoga session was inaugurated by Dr. Kamala Kanta Kalita, Chairman, Assam Khadi and Village Industries Board. Officials and staff of Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau participated in the session maintainingg social distancing and other norms. The Yoga postures were demonstrated by Shri Pranab Kumar Nath, Yoga expert and also an official of Regional Outreach Bureau. The Yoga session had participation of all the other media units of North East zone through live streaming.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1633185) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese