      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Tripura has set an example for the country in combating COVID-19 : L.R Vishwanath
      
      Webinar on “Effective COVID Management in Tripura- Revisited” organised by PIB, Guwahati

      Posted On: 26 JUN 2020 4:30PM by PIB Guwahati

    Tripura has set an example for the country in combating COVID-19 situation said Shri L. R. Vishwanath, Head of Department, Directorate General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting while addressing the media personnel of 8 Northeastern States in a Webinar organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today on the topic “Effective COVID Management in Tripura”.


    Shri Vishwanath asserted that Tripura government’s efforts to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic is even appreciated by the Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi. The main aim of the webinar is to highlight the Tripura model of tackling Coronavirus situation and to sensitize the journalists on how to disseminate factual information during this crisis.


    The recovery rate of COVID-19 is more than 80 percent in Tripura which is above the national rate informed Dr. Kanak Choudhury, MD Medicine while addressing the journalists in the webinar. He spoke extensively on the health scenario of the state and the institutional measures taken by the government to stem the pandemic.


    The Tripura government is giving emphasis on collecting samples for testing so that the spread of COVID-19 pandemic can be controlled. Its success rate is evident from the fact that only one person died in the state due to COVID-19 said Shri Debraj Deb, Correspondent, Indian Express.


    While deliberating in the webinar, senior journalist Sandip Biswas said that early lockdown declared by the Tripura government helped in containing the spread of Coronavirus. People in the state of Tripura strictly followed the lockdown rules and guidelines prescribed by the government said Shri Sanjib Deb, Editor of NE Color news channel.


    Tripura is bouncing back economically and people are helping each other to restore normalcy in their life said Shri Prasanjit Biswas, Retd. IFS officer while addressing the media persons in the webinar giving the perspective of the government to deal with the issue at hand.


    Shri Pranab Sarkar, Secretary of Press Club, Agartala appreciated the efforts of the government in controlling the pandemic while discussing the Tripura strategy to contain COVID-19.


    In her welcome address, Smt. Keerti Tiwari said that the main aim of the workshop is to sensitize the media personnel how a small state like Tripura is an example for not just for the North-eastern states but for the entire country.


    Around 25 journalists across Northeast participated in the workshop through video conference. The webinar was moderated by Shri Gopajit Das, Media and Communication Officer, PIB Shillong and summed up by Shri Sudipto Kar, Media and Communication Officer, PIB Agartala.


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1634516) Visitor Counter : 8
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese