      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005, is crucial as it mandates timely response to a citizen’s request for government information: RTI Expert, Shri G Subramanian
      
      RTI has done a great job ever since its inception: L.R Vishwanath
      
      Webinar on “RTI Act, 2005- Its Salient Feature & Implementation” organised by PIB, Guwahati
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2020 1:03PM by PIB Guwahati


    Press Information Bureau today conducted a Webinar on Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005- Its Salient Features & Implementation. Shri G Subramanian, Former Deputy Secretary & Former Registrar, Central Information Commission who conducted the virtual workshop which was attended by officials of Press Information Bureau, Regional Outreach Bureau and Field Outreach Bureau from across the Northeast.


    Shri Subramanian in his initial remarks said that Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005, is crucial as it mandates timely response to a citizen’s request for government information. The RTI expert spoke extensively on the salient features of RTI and its implementation. He asserted that transparency of information is vital in democratic country like India. RTI Act not only empowered the citizen to question about the functioning of government but also help in containing the corruption and hold the public servant accountable, he added.


    Shri L R Vishwanath, Head of Department, Directorate General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in his welcome address said that Right To Information Act has done a great job ever since its inception in our country. He said that the Act aims at promoting transparency and accountability in the working of every public authority.


    Shri Vishwanath said that government officials must maintain transparency in their work and no file should be kept pending. He further suggested that periodical sensitization of government officials on RTI is essential.


    The Question and answer session post the presentations in the Webinar proved to be fruitful in answering the queries of the participants.


    The Webinar was moderated by Shri Gopajit Das, Media and Communication Officer, PIB Shillong and summed up by Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB, Guwahati .


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1634445) Visitor Counter : 4