      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Amit Shah assures all help towards those affected by natural calamities
      
      Union Home Minister calls Sarbananda Sonowal and H. B. Sarma

      Posted On: 28 JUN 2020 8:30PM by PIB Guwahati

    Union Home Minister Amit Shah today called Chief Minister of Assam Sri Sarbananda Sonowal and Health Minister of Assam, Dr. Himanta Biswa Sarma and enquired about incidents of landslides along with flood and erosion in the state. During the conversation, the Union Home Minister assured all help from the Central Government in mitigating the situation.


    "Spoke to Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal and State Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to take stock of the alarming situation in Brahmaputra river and landslides near Guwahati. All possible help has been assured to state. Modi government stands firmly with the people of Assam," Shah said in the tweet.


    Both Chief Minister Sonowal and Health Minister Sarma expressed their gratitude for Union Home Minister's gesture of deploying NDRF in the rescue operations during landslide situations. They also expressed their heartfelt gratitude for his concern for the people of Assam in this hour of distress.


    As per the flood situation in Assam, on 28th June , 2020 as per, ASDMA in its report states that 23 districts namely Dhemaji, Lakhimpur , Biswanath Chariali, Udalguri, Darrang, Nalbari, Kokrajhar, Bongaigaon, Dhubri, Hojai, West Karbi Anglong, South Salmara, Goalpara, Kamrup, Morigaon, Barpeta, Nagaon, Golaghat, Jorhat, Majuli, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia and Sivasagar districts are affected by flood. Total 2 , 071 villages with a population of 9 .26 ha ve been affected by flood. 133 relief camps has been established at various districts with 27,308 inmates. 221 houses are reportedly partially damaged as per report received. Rescue operations at Dhemaji, Dibrugarh, Bongaigaon, Barpeta and Nalbari are being carried by SDRF, NDRF and Civil defense and Circle Offices. 61 b oats ha ve been deployed and have evacuated 9 , 303 pe ople . Animals have also been affected in Kazaringa National Park due to flood.


    Meanwhile today, due to landslide 1 death has also been reported under Kamrup Metro District.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1635049) Visitor Counter : 15
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Manipuri