      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Saksham-2018
      Posted On: 12 JAN 2018 1:42PM by PIB Delhi


    Saksham (Sanrakshan Kshamta Mahotsav) is an annual flagship event of Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA) under the aegis of Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, Govt. of India , with active involvement of the Oil & Gas PSUs along with other stakeholders like State Governments, for creating focused attention on fuel conservation through people centric activities and to sensitize the masses about the conservation and efficient use of petroleum products leading to better health and environment.


    During this year’s month long ‘Saksham-2018’, various interactive programs and activities are planned with the campaign on fuel conservation, getting a kick-start in a mega inaugural function to be held at Siri Fort Auditorium in Delhi on 16 th January,2018.


    The month long campaign aims to intensify efforts for making citizens aware about the conservation and effective utilization of petroleum products. For this, PCRA will carry out various people centric activities such as Training Programs for Drivers / Fleet Operators, Fuel Efficient Driving Competitions, Group Talk with Ladies / Cooks / Maids / School / College Girls on fuel saving & benefits of LPG / PNG over biomass, Educational Programs for Schools / Colleges / Universities, Awareness Programs for Farmers, Walkathons, Concerts, Exhibitions, etc. Beside this, PCRA has also planned to observe Cycle Day on 21st January throughout the country & Cyclothon event at Indore, Bhubaneswar, Mumbai etc. to spearhead the message of fuel conservation, reduction of vehicular emission by reducing congestion and improving traffic flow.


    Nationwide campaign on various media platforms viz. All India Radio, Doordarshan, TV channels, Private FM channels, Digital Cinema Theaters etc. on fuel conservation and Cyclothon activities are planned for various cities. An exhaustive coverage through social media across the country is also planned by PCRA during Saksham campaign including interactive contests through Facebook, twitter, MyGov platform etc.


    The prizes to the winners of PCRA Saksham National Essay and Painting competition from schools of all education boards shall be given away during the inaugural function which includes Singapore Study tour, Laptops, Tablets & cash prizes to encourage children for continuing their efforts and enhancing their knowledge on energy conservation. Saksham, an initiative of Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas is going to enthuse the masses with a new energy coupled with an all-out effort for saving the precious treasure, the ‘Fuel’, which will also contribute in keeping our environment green.


    ****


    AD/


    

    
    (Release ID: 1516498) Visitor Counter : 4448