      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Saksham-2018
      Posted On: 16 JAN 2018 3:55PM by PIB Delhi


    ‘Saksham 2018’, a vigorous and high intensity one-month long people-centric mega campaign of Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA), Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has been launched on 16 th January in an inaugural function held in Delhi.


    The PCRA Saksham National Essay and Painting competition-2017 has been a big hit amongst the school children with about 40 Lakh students from across schools of all education boards of the country participating in it. The prizes were given away in the function to the winners of PCRA Saksham National Essay and Painting competition-2017, which includes Singapore Study tour, Laptops, Tablets & cash prizes to encourage children in their efforts in the area of fuel conservation. The dignitaries were amazed to see the innovations, skill and thoughts depicted in the paintings of the children reaching finals displayed in the exhibition.


    The National Quiz competition finals are going to be held during this Saksham-2018, wherein students from 31 states shall be vying for the National Title.


    The awards were presented to the oil companies for their exemplary work towards the national cause of fuel conservation.


    The publicity vans of PCRA, the messengers on wheels were flagged-off covering various cities to spread conservation awareness especially amongst the rural masses.


    Under the able guidance of Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, various interactive programs and activities are being run by public sector upstream/downstream Oil & Gas companies during the month long ‘Saksham-2018’ like organizing Cyclothons in various cities, workshops for drivers of commercial vehicles, seminars for housewives/cooks on adopting simple fuel saving measure, nationwide campaign through Radio, TV, Digital Cinemas, Outdoor etc. The focus of ‘Saksham’ is to reach out to various segments viz., School children, Youths, Housewives, Heavy vehicle drivers, Car owners, Mechanics, Fleet Operators, Industries, Farmers, Pump-attendants, LPG delivery boys, Residential Societies, Anganwadies, Gram Panchayats etc. for their involvement and adoption. An exhaustive campaign through social media has also started utilizing all the available option like various customized campaigns including interactive contests through Facebook, twitter, MyGov platform, campaign through Radio, TV, Digital Cinema, Print etc. across the country. One of the biggest achievements of programs under ‘Saksham’ has been organizing Cyclothons in 76 cities and further plans to conduct the Cyclothons in another 600 cities across the country and thus making it as a movement towards fuel conservation and healthy life for the people. PCRA plans to observe Cycle Day on 21st January throughout the country & organizing Cyclothon event at Indore, Bhubaneswar, Mumbai etc. to spread the message of fuel conservation, reduction of vehicular emission by reducing congestion and improving traffic flow


    The quality of the programmes under ‘Saksham’ is going to leave a positive and lasting impressions in the minds of masses and set the stage for providing fresh impetus to the efforts made for fuel conservation in the country.


    ****


    AD/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1516832) Visitor Counter : 5340