      Ministry of Defence

      Qualifying acts: Kirti Chakra & Shaurya Chakra
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2018 6:28PM by PIB Delhi


    KIRTI CHAKRA


    MAJOR VIJAYANT BIST


    4TH BATTALION THE JAMMU AND KASHMIR LIGHT INFANTRY


    06 June to 09 June 2017


    On 06 June 2017 at 2140 hours, leading an ambush in Chorgali Forest of Uri district of Jammu and Kashmir, Major Vijayant spotted infiltration and immediately engaged them. In the intense firefight, some terrorists infiltrated into Goalta forest.


    At 0500 hours on 07 June, Major Vijayant tracked the terrorists and at 1140 hours engaged them in a fierce firefight. While closing in with the terrorists, first scout of the patrol Rifleman Raj Paul got injured. Under heavy volume of fire from the terrorist, the officer unmindful of his personal safety, crawled forward and pulled his colleague almost 30 meters in an undulating ground behind cover. The terrorists continued to engage the patrol with heavy fire. Undeterred, he regardless of personal dangers, carried out hot pursuit of escaping terrorists. Displaying tactical acumen and extraordinary physical courage, he moved forward and engaged the fleeing terrorist and thus prevented their escape. The officer motivated his team to continue search of terrorists for next 48 hours under adverse weather conditions. His perseverance fructified on 09 June at 1345 hours when the terrorists were sighted again. In ensuing firefight, officer dashed forward, unmindful of terrorist’s heavy fire and lobbed grenades while firing on them. In this daring act he neutralized one terrorist. However, the second terrorist charged towards the patrol and came face to face with the officer. Major Vijayant displaying nerves of steel and raw courage engaged the second terrorist in a close quarter battle and eliminated him at point blank range.


    For displaying conspicuous gallantry and indomitable spirit, beyond the call of duty for eliminating two terrorists, saving the life of one comrade under heavy volume of fire and gallantly leading his men in neutralising three more terrorists, Major Vijayant is awarded with “KIRTI CHAKRA”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    MAJOR AKHIL RAJ RV


    THE GRENADIERS REGIMENT / 55TH BATTALION THE RASHTRIYA RIFLES


    01 AUG 2017


    On 01 Aug 2017, at approximately 0200 hrs, Major Akhil Raj RV generated input from his sources regarding presence of hardcore Lashkar-e-Toiba terrorists in a house in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir. Displaying tactical acumen of highest order, meticulously planned the operation and established a fool proof cordon with stealth and surprise.


    With total disregard to personal safety, the officer carried out reconnaissance amidst heavy terrorist fire for deploying his rocket launcher detachment, subsequently destroying the dominating terrorists from close range, the officer crawled through a breach created into the target house, displayed raw courage and exceptional reflex firing skills to eliminate one terrorist. Major Akhil displaying fearlessness and nerves of steel, deliberately moved out of cover to distract attention of the remaining terrorists so that he they could be neutralized from a different direction by another party.


    For displaying exemplary leadership, raw courage, fearlessness in face to intense firing and conspicuous gallantry beyond call of duty resulting in elimination of hard core terrorists of Lashkar-e-Toiba tanzeem, Major Akhil Raj RV is awarded with “SHAURYA CHAKRA”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    CAPTAIN ROHIT SHUKLA


    THE RAJPUT REGIMENT / 44TH BATTALION THE RASHTRIYA RIFLES


    03 JULY 2017


    Captain Rohit Shukla had been continuously tracking terrorist groups from the last two months. His untiring efforts bore fruits when on 03 July 2017 he was able to generate a specific intelligence regarding presence of terrorists in Pulwama District of Jammu and Kashmir. Officer acted swiftly and reorganized his team from an ongoing operation in another location. To maintain surprise and speed, he quickly moved from previous operation site in a civil vehicle.


    On reaching the area, Captain Rohit Shukla displaying presence of mind, quickly appreciated the situation and made necessary changes in his plan and stealthily laid a quick cordon around suspected house. At 0740 hours, he challenged terrorists moving out of the house to ascertain their identity. These persons initiated heavy volume of fire on the officer’s party. Unmindful of his personal safety, Showing indomitable spirit and raw courage, Captain Rohit closed in with the terrorists and showing excellent tactical acumen, he directed MGL fire on the hiding terrorists, thus, forcing the terrorists to change their location.


    Subsequently, during the search, Captain Rohit’s party drew fire from the terrorists and a grenade hurled by terrorists injured Captain Rohit in his leg. Despite being injured and bleeding he continued directing fire and in the highest traditions of the Army, personally led the evacuation of his team from the target house complex. Thus saving lives of own personnel.


    For displaying indomitable courage, initiative, bravery and taking on the terrorists, unmindful of his personal safety, resulting in the elimination of hardcore Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists, Captain Rohit Shukla is awarded with “SHAURYA CHAKRA”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    CAPTAIN ABHINAV SHUKLA


    2ND BATTALION THE PARACHUTE REGIMENT (SPECIAL FORCES)


    24 JUNE 2017 TO 25 JUNE 2017


    Captain Abhinav Shukla was part of the team tasked to clear a built up area at Badgam district of Jammu and Kashmir where terrorists were hiding after attacking a CRPF convoy. During close recce the officer was injured with grenade splinters. Despite the injury the officer volunteered to lead his squad into the built up area and in a daring feat while displaying exemplary leadership was the first to climb into the complex, covering an approximate height of 40 feet while firing on the move.


    While clearing the built up area Captain Abhinav Shukla drew accurate fire from terrorists, injuring him with a laceration. Unmindful of his injury and oblivious to the pain he continued to fire accurately on the terrorists. In the resulting close quarter fire fight the officer personally eliminated hardcore terrorists. Refusing to be evacuated and unmindful of personal injuries Captain Abhinav Shukla continued to guide his men and provided accurate fire support which led to the successful execution of the operation.


    His display of indomitable courage and leadership resulted in successful termination of a highly complex and difficult operation. For displaying gallant action in spite of personal injuries and raw courage under fire, Capt Abhinav Shukla is award with “SHAURYA CHAKRA”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    CAPT PRADEEP SHOURY ARYA


    106 INFANTRY BATTALION TERRITORIAL ARMY (PARA) ATTACHED WITH


    4TH BATTALION THE PARACHUTE REGIMENT (SPECIAL FORCES)


    28 MAY 2017


    Captain Pradeep Shoury Arya was commissioned into 106 Infantry Battalion Territorial Army (PARA) on 20 November 2009 and was attached with 4th Battalion, The Parachute Regiment (Special Forces)


    Captain Pradeep was the mission leader tasked to create an effective vibrant intelligence network along the line of control at Baramula district of Jammu and Kashmir


    On 28 May 2017 his assets informed of a probable infiltration which included both Lashkar-e-Taiba opposite own general area Chabuk in 19 Infantry Division Area of Responsibility, who were tasked to carryout direct action on own Acting swiftly Captain Arya organized a ambush party and stealthy inducted his team at the forward Line of Control post to intercept-cum-ambush them in the likely infiltration route


    At approximately 2230 hours on 28 May 2017, Captain Pradeep while sitting his troop detected move of 4-6 terrorists moving 200 meters ahead in the nallah. Fearing the terrorists might slip away using the moon less night and dense jungle foliage, the officer showing pre-eminent valor moved ahead with his buddy in the mined area to intercept them and immediately initiated a firefight. Displaying intrepidity at the risk of his life and cold nerves he closed in, and sited himself over a fallen tree overlooking the terrorists Captain Pradeep Shoury Arya showing heroic initiative and inspirational combat leadership ran ahead from his concealed position, unmindful of his own safety and came directly in contact with the terrorists and eliminated them.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    HAVILDAR MUBARIK ALI


    THE GRENADIERS REGIMENT / 55TH BATTALION THE RASHTRIYA RIFLES


    30 July 2017


    On generic input regarding movement of terrorists in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, a battalion level cordon and search operation was launched on 30 July 2017 at approximately 0300 hours. Havildar Mubarik Ali was the Quick Reaction Team Non Commissioned Officer (NCO) of his company during the op.


    At approximately 0850 hours, The NCO observed movement of suspicious personnel in a by-lane, taking cover NCO challenged these suspected personnel, they immediately fired back at the NCO, The terrorists took cover and started firing on the NCO. With the aim of effectively engaging the terrorist, NCO with utter disregard to personal safety, under heavy terrorist fire crawled and changed his location. In this process he got wounded, however, displaying exemplary junior leadership and courage beyond the call of duty, Havildar Mubarik Ali surprised and neutralized the terrorists.


    For displaying exemplary junior leadership and courage beyond call of duty which resulted in elimination of two hardcore Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists, Havildar Mubarik Ali is awarded with “SHAURYA CHAKRA”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    HAVILDAR RABINDRA THAPA


    4/1ST BATTALION THE GORKHA RIFLES


    07 JUNE 2017 TO 08 JUNE 2017


    Havildar Rabindra Thapa is the post commander of Kilo III stop of the Sangam Complex along the Line of Control in Kupwara District of Jammu & Kashmir.


    On the night of 07 June 2017, while an intense Cease Fire Violation was in progress, he continued to scan the area ahead with a Hand Held Thermal Imager and identified movement of some terrorists who were across the Anti Infiltration Obstacle System. He immediately alerted his Platoon Commander and commenced recording of the movement of the terrorists.


    Once the terrorists had crossed though being under heavy fire, he re-sited himself without fear for his own safety and sprung the opportunity ambush.


    As the terrorists started fleeing he continued to bring down effective fire. The individual crawled and moved to one flank from where he was able to bring down effective fire to eliminate the terrorists.


    For this display of conspicuous courage, bravery and high awareness levels leading to the elimination of hard core foreign terrorists, Havildar Rabindra Thapa is awarded with “SHAURYA CHAKRA”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    NAIK NARENDER SINGH


    9TH BATTALION THE PARACHUTE REGIMENT (SPECIAL FORCES)


    24 – 25 JUNE 2017


    Naik Narender Singh was part of the Troop deployed along the Line of Control at Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir to prevent unprovoked enemy attacks and infiltration in Noushera Sector.


    On 25 June 2017 at 0445 hours, movement of heavily armed terrorists along the Line of Control was picked up by own troops. The troop immediately launched to cut off and intercept the terrorists. On challenging them the terrorists opened indiscriminate fire and scattered in the dense bush. As the gun fight raged, own squad came under intense fire from a group terrorists hiding behind the rocks. Realising the grave threat to own troops, Naik Narender displaying superlative battle craft, closed in with the hostiles and lobbed grenades to flush them out. Finding themselves cornered, the hostiles rushed out firing and lobbing grenades simultaneously. Undeterred by the fire, Naik Narender maintained his composure eliminated the hostiles at close quarters.


    For his unparalleled devotion to duty, dogged determination, unflinching resolve and exceptional battle craft while single handedly eliminating the infiltrating, Naik Narender Singh is awarded with “SHAURYA CHAKRA”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    LANCE NAIK BADHER HUSSAIN


    4TH BATTALION THE JAMMU AND KASHMIR LIGHT INFANTRY


    07 JUNE 2017


    On 07 June 2017 at 0500 hours, Lance Naik Badher was the leading scout of the search party into a dense Forest at Uri district of Jammu and Kashmir.


    Persistently searching trails of terrorists at 1140 hours, he spotted terrorists and immediately warned his party. However, in the ensuing firefight, Rifleman Vijay was severely injured. Sensing danger to his buddy he exposed himself, unmindful of his personal safety, he continued maintaining his position and brought down heavy volume of fire on terrorists, enabling others to pull back his buddy to safety but terrorists managed to escape. Undeterred, he continued hot pursuit and was part of search for trail of terrorists. When terrorists were sited again, he established a stop and displaying nerves of steel, brought down accurate fire on them, ensuring elimination of the terrorists.


    For this gallant act of saving a life and eliminating hardcore foreign terrorists ensemble with conspicuous courage, beyond the call of duty, Lance Naik Badher is awarded with “SHAURYA CHAKRA”.


    SHAURYA CHAKRA


    PARATROOPER MANCHU


    12TH BATTALION THE PARACHUTE REGIMENT (SPECIAL FORCES)


    06 JUNE 2017


    Paratrooper Manchu, 12th Battalion THE PARACHUTE REGIMENT (SPECIAL FORCES), deployed in Mon District (Nagaland) was part of Mobile Vehicle Check Post (MVCP) on 06 June 17.


    Based on input regarding move of suspected cadres of NSCN(K) and ULFA(I), combined column under Major David Manlun and Capt (Now Major) Nitesh Kumar moved out to establish a MVCP. At approx at 2200h two Auto Rickshaws sped past MVCP and on being pursued by own squad in Gypsy came to sudden halt. The terrorists dismounted and opened heavy fire and lobbed grenades on own party. In the ensuing fire fight three soldiers were critically injured. Paratrooper Manchu moved towards injured under heavy fire and brought down effective fire and enabled elimination of the terrorists. Due to the grenade blast he was grievously injured in both eyes and shoulder but despite bleeding profusely he pulled back two soldiers to safety.


    During the operation Paratrooper Manchu displayed raw courage and presence of mind under heavy fire. His initiative and determination of very high order despite grievous injuries to himself saved lives of his fellow squad members. For this gallant action, Paratrooper Manchu is awarded with “SHAURYA CHAKRA”.


    Manoj Tuli


    APRO (Army)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517871) Visitor Counter : 2163