      Ministry of Tourism

      ‘BHARAT PARV’ Focusses on ‘DEKHO APNA DESH’
      Posted On: 29 JAN 2018 5:08PM by PIB Delhi


    ‘Bharat Parv’ being organized by the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India at the Red Fort, Delhi from 26 th to 31 st January, 2018 is focusing on “Dekho Apna Desh”. People in large number are coming in the Parv to celebrate the diverse and fascinating culture, cuisine and handicrafts. The entry to the Parv is free and it open for public from 12.00 Noon to 10.00 pm. However, Identity proof is to be carried for entry to the event.


    Today, the Army, Air Force and Navy presented Static Band and Army also displayed Dynamic Band. The artists from Chhatisgarh presented ‘Lokmanya’ programme; the artists from Jammu and Kashmir presented ‘Dogri/Bhand Pather’ programme; and the artists from Uttarakhand presented ‘Chapeli’. Beside these, the artists from Telangana presented ‘Perini Natyam & Oggu Dollu’ and the artists from Andhra Pradesh presented ‘Kuchipudi’ dance. The Tableau artists who participated in the Republic Day parade-2018 also performed. At last, the artists of North Zone Cultural Centre (NZCC) presented a Choreographed performance on Pan India Basis.


    The Ministry of Tourism has been designated as the nodal Ministry for the event, the highlights of which include Display of Republic Day Parade Tableaux, Performances by the Armed Forces Bands (Static as well as dynamic), a Multi-Cuisine Food Court, Crafts Mela, Cultural Performances from different regions of the country and a Photo Exhibition on the theme “Naya Bharat Hum Karke Rahenge” by the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP). A live ‘Cookery Demonstration Area’ has been set up in the food court to promote cuisines of different States of India. The Food Court has stalls set up by the States/ UTs, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) showcasing street food from different regions as well as by the Institutes of Hotel Managements and ITDC.


    The Crafts Mela with 50 stalls showcases the diverse handicrafts of the country, arranged by the State Governments and Ministry of Textiles through the office of the Development Commissioner of Handicrafts. There are Theme State Pavilions where each State is showcasing its strength along with its tourism products.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/29.01.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518180) Visitor Counter : 3574