      Ministry of Finance

      Aspirations and expectations of the local people needs to be meet for preserving the cultural identity: N.K.Singh
      Posted On: 27 APR 2018 4:29PM by PIB Guwahati


    Aspirations and expectations of the local people needs to be meet for preserving the cultural identity: N.K.Singh


    The aspirations and expectations of the local people needs to be meet for preserving the cultural identity , said Shri N.K.Singh, Chairman of the 15th Finance Commission today after holding interactive sessions with the representatives of various Autonomous Councils and participants from the Trade and Industry sector of the State at the Assam Administrative Staff College, Guwahati.


    The team of the 15 th Finance Commission led by the Chairman Shri N.K.Singh and comprising of members Shri Shaktikanta Das, Dr. Anoop Singh, Dr. Ashok Lahiri, Dr. Ramesh Chand and Secretary Shri Arvind Mehta held the meeting with the Autonomous Councils of the State as a part of their visit to the State to assess the state of the finances of the State. The members of the several Autonomous Councils presented memorandums of their problems and suggestions to the Commission. The Chairman discussed about the issues related to financial and administrative process of the Councils and also about their expectations from the 15 th Finance Commission.


    The Autonomous Councils present in the meeting like The Bodoland Territorial Council, Karbi Aanglong Autonomous Council, Dima Hasao Autonomous Council, Deori Autonomous Council, Tiwa Autonomous Council among others discussed about their problems regarding various socio economic factors of their respective regions. They requested the Commission to allot funds for better connectivity i.e. construction of roads, highways etc for their areas. The autonomous councils put forth their suggestions of preserving the indigenous culture and dialects of the small ethnic groups and requested the commission to provide funds for the purpose. The Autonomous Councils also talked about the problems of the agricultural and tourism sectors of their regions. These sectors have huge scope for development and special consideration and financing mechanism for these were discussed by the members to the Commission for the issues to be solved.


    The Commission also had a meeting with the various members from the Trade and Industries Sector of the State. Members from different setups like the Assam Chamber of Commerce, Confederation of Indian Industry, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industries, Assam Branch of Indian Tea Association, Indian Chamber of Commerce, All Assam Small Scale Industries Association among others shared their recommendations and suggestions with the Commission. Ravi Kapoor, the Additional Chief secretary, Government of Assam, shared a brief introduction of the industries in Assam like the tea industry, oil industry, plastic industry, agro and food processing industry, bamboo industry etc and the problems they were facing. The Commission noted the complexity of these issues and the solutions to them were discussed in the meeting.


    The members from the Trade and Commerce industries asked the Commission for the need to develop the local industries by providing funds for their sustainable growth. Issues related to infrastructure and connectivity to the different neighborhood States for better productivity was also discussed. Indrani Tahbildar, General Secretary of the Assam Chambers of Commerce pointed out about the need for a centre of excellence for the sustainable development of the tea industry among other various concerns. The need for the development of the Small and the micro industries was discussed for sustainable development goals.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1530566) Visitor Counter : 11