      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Ministry of Food Processing Industries issues guidelines for OPERATION GREENS
      Posted On: 05 NOV 2018 1:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Food Processing Industries(MoFPI) under Union Minister Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal has approved the operationalisation strategy for Operation Greens today. Operation Greens was announced in the Budget speech of 2018-19 with an outlay of Rs 500 crores to stabilize the supply of Tomato, Onion and Potato(TOP) crops and to ensure availability of TOP crops throughout the country round the year without price volatility.


    Approving the measures, the Minister said “Price volatility of TOP crops wreaks havoc in the households of this country. This is a revolutionary scheme which has evolved after sustained dialogue with all stakeholders and we have decided the strategy to stabilize prices of TOP crops and to make sure that TOP crops reach all households in the country around the year.” Smt Badal added “Our government has laid down special measures and grants-in-aid under the scheme to ensure enhanced production of TOP crops and to augment value chain”.


    The strategy will comprise of a series of measures as decided by the Ministry which include:


    (I) Short term Price Stabilisation Measures


    NAFED will be the Nodal Agency to implement price stabilisation measures. MoFPI will provide 50% of the subsidy on the following two components:

     1. Transportation of Tomato Onion Potato(TOP) Crops from production to storage;
     2. Hiring of appropriate storage facilities for TOP Crops;

    (II) Long Term Integrated value chain development projects

     1. Capacity Building of FPOs & their consortium
     2. Quality production
     3. Post-harvest processing facilities
     4. Agri-Logistics
     5. Marketing / Consumption Points
     6. Creation and Management of e-platform for demand and supply management of TOP Crops.

    The pattern of assistance will comprise of grants-in-aid at the rate of 50% of the eligible project cost in all areas, subject to maximum Rs. 50 crores per project. However, in case where PIA is/are FPO(s), the grant-in-aid will be at the rate of 70% of the eligible project cost in all areas, subject to maximum Rs. 50 crores per project.


    Eligible Organisation would include State Agriculture and other Marketing Federations, Farmer Producer Organizations (FPO), cooperatives, companies, Self-help groups, food processors, logistic operators, service providers, supply chain operators, retail and wholesale chains and central and state governments and their entities/organizations will be eligible to participate in the programme and to avail financial assistance.


    The applicant fulfilling the eligibility criteria under the scheme is required to submit the online application on SAMPADA portal of the ministry ( https://sampada.gov.in/ ) attaching therewith complete documents.


    The list of selected clusters is provided at Annexure-I


    Background of Operation Greens


    In the budget speech of 2018-19, a new Scheme “Operation Greens” was announced on the line of “Operation Flood”, with an outlay of Rs.500 crore to promote Farmer Producers Organizations, agri-logistics, processing facilities and professional management.


    Major objectives of “Operation Greens” are as under:

     1. Enhancing value realisation of TOP farmers by targeted interventions to strengthen TOP production clusters and their FPOs, and linking/connecting them with the market.
     2. Price stabilisation for producers and consumers by proper production planning in the TOP clusters and introduction of dual use varieties.
     3. Reduction in post-harvest losses by creation of farm gate infrastructure, development of suitable agro-logistics, creation of appropriate storage capacity linking consumption centres.
     4. Increase in food processing capacities and value addition in TOP value chain with firm linkages with production clusters.
     5. Setting up of a market intelligence network to collect and collate real time data on demand and supply and price of TOP crops.

    Annexure-I


    Annexure-I


    List of selected clusters

     1. Production cluster of Tomato:
                                                                 
S.No  State           Production Cluster Area                    
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
1.    Andhra Pradesh  Chittoor and Anantpur (Kharif & Rabi crops)
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
2.    Karnataka       Kolar & Chikkaballapur (Kharif crop)       
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
3.    Odisha          Mayurbhanj & Keonjhar (Rabi crop)          
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
4     Gujarat         Sabarkantha                                
                                                                 
                                                                 

     1. Production cluster of Onion:

                                               
S.No  State        Production Cluster Area     
                                               
                                               
                                               
1.    Maharashtra  Nasik (Rabi crop)           
                                               
                                               
                                               
2.    Karnataka    Gadag &Dharwad (Kharif crop)
                                               
                                               
                                               
3.    Gujarat      Bhavnagar & Amreli          
                                               
                                               
                                               
4.    Bihar        Nalanda                     
                                               
                                               

     1. Production cluster of Potato

                                                             
S. No  State          Production Cluster Area                
                                                             
                                                             
                                                             
1.     Uttar Pradesh  (a)Agra, Firozabad, Hathras and Aligarh
                                                             
                                                             
                      (b) Farrukhabad and Kannauj            
                                                             
                                                             
                                                             
2.     West Bengal    Hooghly and Purba Bardhaman            
                                                             
                                                             
                                                             
3.     Bihar          Nalanda                                
                                                             
                                                             
                                                             
4.     Gujarat        Banaskantha and Sabarkantha            
                                                             
                                                             

    Note: The list will be subject to revision by the Ministry based on the inputs received from the State Governments and experience gained during implementation of the project.


    This list will be modified after the expiry of Model Code of Conduct by the Election Commission in the upcoming assembly elections in 5 States to held in Nov-Dec’2018.


    ******


    SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1551889) Visitor Counter : 3278
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Tamil
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
1.