      Ministry of Defence

      33rd Annual Day Celebration in AFGJI
      Posted On: 03 NOV 2018 5:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Air Force Golden Jubilee Institute, Subroto Park celebrated its 33 rd Annual Day on the 3 rd of November 2018 on the theme ‘ RAS TARANGINI ’. The event began with the esteemed Chief Guest, Air Marshal PP Bapat Vishisht Seva Medal, Air Officer- in Charge Administration, Indian Air Force and his wife, Mrs Smita Bapat lighting the ceremonial lamp along with Air Commodore M Mohanta, Principal Director Schools Adventure and Sports and Chairman Managing Committee, Air Force Schools, Mrs Bandita Mohanta, Wg Cdr Madhu Sengar- Executive Director and the Principal, Mrs Poonam S Rampal.


    The Welcome Address was given by the School Head boy, Eric Chopra. The invocation ‘ Ahvaan – Call for resurrection’’ was a prayer to the Almighty to restore peace and tranquility in the world. It exemplified the need of the hour and showcased the power that peace and harmony possess over the evils prevalent in our society and was performed by the talented choir of the institution, ‘Ekyataan’. The Annual School Report was presented by the Principal, Mrs Poonam S Rampal and the students. A presentation was shown highlighting the achievements and progress of the school. It was a moment of pride when scholarships and awards were given away to the exemplary achievers of all the three wings during the Prize Distribution Ceremony, amidst thunderous applause from the audience.


    The dance-drama ‘ RASTARANGINI ’, encapsulated and exemplified the gamut of emotions that find a wonderful manifestation in the life of the hero, the slayer, the guide and the saviour – Lord Krishna. It was a collaborative effort of the students of the Primary, Senior and the Special Wing. The auditorium foyer was decorated with rangoli and paintings based on the life of Lord Krishna. The Chief Guest then addressed the audience and applauded the efforts of the staff and over 350 students who came together to put up a successful event. The occasion ended with the Vote of Thanks proposed by the School Head girl, Shefali Arora.


    ***


    ARG/BBS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551812) Visitor Counter : 651
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu