      Ministry of Defence

      Seminar on Planning, Design and Construction of Long-Span Bridges
      Posted On: 01 NOV 2018 5:51PM by PIB Delhi


    A two-day seminar has been organised by Indian Institute of Bridge Engineers (IIBE) duly supported by Border Roads Organisation (BRO) on the ‘Planning, Design and Construction of Long-span bridges’ beginning here today. It was inaugurated by Minister of State (Independent Charge) for the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region, Prime Minister Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Department of Atomic Energy and Department of Space Dr Jitendra Singh.


    Dr. Singh in his inaugural address highlighted that in overall development of nation connectivity plays a vital role. He expressed his appreciation that IIBE and BRO have taken the initiative to organise this Seminar on such a vital and important topic. Director General Border Roads (DGBR) Lt Gen Harpal Singh highlighted that the topic of the Seminar is a vital subject in today’s context to give due boost to the pace of development of infrastructure in the country.


    Vice Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen DevrajAnbu expressed the need for development of road infrastructure in North and North East of the nation for efficient and speedy mobilisation of strategic resources along the border. Therefore, the seminar on long span bridges is an apt theme to be deliberated by the fraternity of Bridge Engineers.


    Construction of bridges across water bodies having widespread water ways, excessive depths of flow, high velocities of current and bouldery riverbed has always been a challenging task for the fraternity of Engineers. Long Span bridges have a significant role to play at such difficult locations especially to facilitate safe and sustainable connectivity with least disturbance to the natural settings of the area and ecology.


    Engineer-in-Chief Lt Gen SK Shrivastava, MD NHIDCL Shri NN Sinha, MD, National High Speed Rail Corporation Shri AchalKhare and Chairman Technical Committee of Indian Institute of Bridge Engineers Shri Mahesh Tandon also shared the dais with Minister. The seminar is being attended by more than 400 delegates, all dealing with the specialised subject.


    AA/Nampi/DK/ Rajib


    

    
    (Release ID: 1551609) Visitor Counter : 488
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi