      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Pilot Ganga Grams will be the role model for village cleanliness
      
      Sustainable behavior towards better sanitation is everyone’s responsibility: Union Minister Uma Bharati

      Posted On: 06 NOV 2018 10:34AM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Drinking Water and Sanitation Ms. Uma Bharati has said that maintaining sustainable behavior towards better sanitation is everyone’s responsibility. She was speaking in Ganga Gram Swachchhata Sammelan at Chyavan Rishi Ashram in Chousa Village of Buxar district in Bihar yesterday. About four thousands Swachhagrahis, Ganga volunteers, youth organization members, students, women groups and people from all walks of life attended the sammelan.


    Ganga Gram is a concept to transform the villages on the bank of river Ganga into ideal villages with emphasis on Open Defecation Free, Solid and Liquid Waste Management, Water Conservation, Ground Water Recharge, modern crematorium, tree plantation, organic and medicinal plants. After declaration of all 4465 Ganga Bank villages as ODF, the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation is working in the direction of sustaining the ODF status of this area. In this regard, Ms. Uma Bharati appreciated the efforts made by district team, Panchayat representatives towards making Buxar district ODF. She underlined that India has shown to the world the commitment of the Government and achieved national sanitation coverage from a lowly 39 per cent to over 95 per cent. She urged people to participate in SLWM activities, not to litter around and pollute water sources, take care of their waste management and promote organic farming.


    Mr. Munna Tiwari, MLA, senior officials from the Centre and the State and leaders from nearby Panchayats were also present in the Sammelan. Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation is organizing a series of Ganga Gram Swachhata Sammelan during this month.


    ******


    AR/SNC/SD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551968) Visitor Counter : 1456
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi