      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      MoU signed between Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports of India and the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism of the Republic of Korea
      Posted On: 05 NOV 2018 4:18PM by PIB Delhi


    A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports of India and the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism of the Republic of Korea on sports cooperation here today. From Indian side the MoU was signed by the Minister of State(I/C) Youth Affairs and Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore and the Korean side was represented by their Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism H.E DO JONGHWAN.


    The objective of this Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) is to establish a framework to facilitate and promote cooperation between the two countries on the basis of reciprocity and mutual benefit. The cooperation under this MoU may include areas like (a) Exchange of coaches, athletes, experts;(b) Exchange of scientific and methodical materials (c) Joint training for athletes and officials;(d) Participation in sports event, seminars, symposia and conferences organized by either country etc. The two countries will encourage exchanges and cooperative actions between sports authorities, sports federations and other sports bodies in the different areas of cooperation, as jointly decided.


    Expressing happiness over the signing of the MoU, Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore said that such initiative would broaden the cooperation between the two countries not only in the fieldof sports but also in other areas. He further stated that two countries must also collaborate in sports such as Archery and Taekwondo where Republic of Korea is one of the pioneer countries. The best practices in management of sports infrastructure, governance of sports followed by the Republic of Koreas need to be studied for improvement in our system, he added.


    Speaking on the occasion, Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism H.E. DO JONGHWAN said that his country always looks forward to working with India in Sports. Relationship with India is priority for their leadership and they would be happy to provide assistance to India in areas of common interest. The Korean side invited Hon’ble Minister to visit their country.


    Col.Rajyavardhan Rathore presented an audio collection of Ram Charit Manas and Quotes of Mahatama Gandhi to the Korean Minister.


    *****


    YKB/TFK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1551909) Visitor Counter : 769