      AYUSH

      Ayurveda Day to be celebrated throughout the Country on 5th November
      Posted On: 03 NOV 2018 2:46PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of AYUSH observes Ayurveda Day every year on Dhanawantari Jayanti (Dhanteras). This year Ayurveda Day is being observed on 5 th November 2018. On this occasion, Ministry is organising a “National Seminar on Entrepreneurship and Business Development in Ayurveda” in association with NITI Aayog on 4 th & 5 th November 2018 at Dr. Ambedkar International centre, Janapth, New Delhi, with the intention to encourage entrepreneurs and Ayurveda stakeholders towards businesses opportunities in the sector.


    The Seminar is a subsequent step to the challenges taken by the Ministry to increase Ayurveda Market share three fold by the year 2022. The seminar is expected to develop awareness among stakeholders about the business opportunities, encouraging young entrepreneurs to use of modern technologies and modern innovations in business development in the sector and to highlight opportunities at global level. The experts in marketing, finance management, innovation, telemedicine, the policy makers, experts in start-up as well as experienced entrepreneurs in Ayurveda pharmaceuticals and hospital industry will guide and share their experiences with the participants. The deliberations in the seminar are expected to educate the young entrepreneurs about the various possibilities of business development in Ayurveda sector, how to use the technology and the ease of business being facilitated by the Government for promoting their business in the field of Ayurveda. Ministry of AYUSH look forward to actualise the words of Prime Minister that ‘Young entrepreneurs who are planning a start-up could find a lot of opportunities in holistic healthcare” / ‘We have seen the IT revolution in last 30 years. Now, time has come for health revolution under the aegis of Ayurveda.


    Nearly 800 participants from across the country are expected to participate in the main function of 3 rd Ayurveda day. “National Dhanwantari Ayurveda Award” comprising of Citation, Trophy (Dhanwantari Statue) and Cash reward of Rupees five lakh shall be conferred on this day to eminent Vaidyas. The Ministry of AYUSH has selected three renowned Ayurveda experts namely Vaidya Shiv Kumar Mishra, Vaidya Madhav Singh Bhagel and Vaidya Itoozhi Bhavadasan Namboothiri for the prestigious National Dhanwantari Ayurveda Award for the year 2018. The winners of the National level Ayurveda quiz conducted by All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA), New Delhi, will also be felicitated during function.


    Another highlight observation of the 3 rd Ayurveda Day would be the launch of the AYUSH-Health Management Information System (A-HMIS), a dedicated software application for Electronic Health Record (EHR) for the AYUSH systems of Healthcare. A-HIMS which is being launched across 15 AYUSH units in different parts of the country in the first phase on 5 th November 2018 is expected to revolutionise the way Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy are practised in the country, by inducting modern IT-solutions into these systems.


    Ministry of AYUSH has conducted various activities throughout the country as a part of Ayurveda Day celebrations. The Ayurveda half marathon was one of the main activities in 100 cities throughout the country through All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA), New Delhi, Research Councils, Institute for Postgraduate Teaching & Research in Ayurveda (IPGTRA) Gujarat, and National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA) Jaipur. A spate of activities including Public Lectures, Exhibitions, Distribution of Medicinal plants, Patient-education drives and Social Media campaigns were also organised by the Central Council of Research in Ayurveda (CCRAS) through its units across the country.


    All the State Governments, State AYUSH Directorates, all Ayurveda colleges/ teaching institutions, AYUSH/Health Universities, Associations of Ayurveda Practitioners, Ayurveda Drug Industries and all supporters/ well-wishers and stakeholders of Ayurveda in India and abroad are also observing 3 rd Ayurveda Day on 5 th November, 2018 by undertaking various activities like organizing Public lectures / Seminars / Exhibition / Radio Talks etc. on the theme “Ayurveda for Public health” as a part of Ayurveda Day celebration.


    RJ/ SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551798) Visitor Counter : 2393