      Vice President's Secretariat

      Mahatma Gandhi’s experience with truth & his commitment to serve the needy is an inspirational saga: Vice President
      
      Launches ‘India For Humanity’ programme to commemorate 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi
      
      Calls on the President of Malawi

      Posted On: 05 NOV 2018 9:51PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Mahatma Gandhi’s life and message of peace finds resonance in every part of the World. He was addressing the gathering after launching ‘India For Humanity’ a worldwide program on the ocassion of 150 the birth anniversary of the Father of our Nation Mahatma Gandhi at Lilongwe, Malawi today.


    Shri Naidu said that ‘India For Humanity’ launched in Malawi opens an opportunity to take the message of Mahatma Gandhi to all parts of the world as it seeks to celebrate the great values of humanism which Mahatma Gandhi embodied right through his life.


    He said that Mahatama Gandhi’s vision and voice has a rare resonance in numerous hearts around the world because it springs from the timeless humanistic vision of India.


    TheVice President said that it was his good fortune to launch the first Jaipur Foot camp on the sidelines of ‘India For Humanity’ in Africa, especially in Africa where Mahatma Gandhi lived for more than twenty years and drew sustenance for his fight against discrimination and colonial domination with nothing but truth and non-violence as his weapons.


    Saying that “India For Humanity” seeks to celebrate the great values of humanism which Mahatma Gandhi embodied right through his life, the Vice President said that the program has been launched by the government to take the message of Mahatma Gandhi to all parts of the world over the next one year.


    Earler, the Vice President called on the President of Malawi, Prof. Arthur Peter Mutharika, at the State House and held discussions on matters of mutual interest and cooperation. Both the leaders recollected the friendly and cordial relations of both the nations and decided to take it to the next level.


    Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC), Trade and Commercial Cooperation, support in the fields of Cooperation, Mineral Resources, Health and matters pertaining to international and multilateral issues were also discussed.


    The Vice President was on three nation Africa visit. Earlier he had visited Botswana and Zimbabwe. He will be leaving for Delhi after completing his engagements in Malawi today.


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551967) Visitor Counter : 680