      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog Constitutes Himalayan State Regional Council
      Posted On: 15 NOV 2018 7:25PM by PIB Delhi


    NITI Aayog has constituted the ‘Himalayan State Regional Council’ t o ensure sustainable development of the Indian Himalayan region. The Council has been constituted to review and implement identified action points based on the Reports of five Working Groups, which were established along thematic areas to prepare a roadmap for action.


    Recognizing the uniqueness of the Himalayas and the challenges for sustainable development, Five Working Groups were constituted by NITI Aayog on June 2, 2017.


    These Working Groups were tasked with preparing a roadmap for action across five thematic areas namely,

     1. Inventory and Revival of Springs in Himalayas for Water Security,
     2. Sustainable Tourism in Indian Himalayan Region,
     3. Shifting Cultivation: Towards Transformation Approach,
     4. Strengthening Skill & Entrepreneurship (E&S) Landscape in Himalayas, and
     5. Data/Information for Informed Decision Making.

    The five thematic reports were released by the NITI Aayog in August, 2018 and framed the action points for the Terms of Reference of the Council constituted.


    The Himalayan State Regional Council will be chaired by the Dr VK Saraswat, Member, NITI Aayog and will consist of the Chief Secretaries of the Himalayan States as well as the Secretaries of key Central Ministries, senior officers of NITI Aayog as well as special invitees.


    The Himalayan States Regional Council will be the nodal agency for the Sustainable development in the Himalayan Region which consists of the twelve States namely Jammu &Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, two districts of Assam namely Dima Hasao and KarbiAnglong and Darjeeling and Kalimpong in West Bengal.


    The terms of reference of the Council states that it shall monitor the implementation of action points for Central Ministries, Institutions and 12 Himalayan State Governments in Indian Himalayan Region which include river basin development and regional cooperation, spring mapping and revival across Himalayas in phased manner for water security; develop, implement and monitor tourism sector standards as well as bring policy coherence, strengthen skill & entrepreneurship with focus on identified priority sectors, among other action points.


    *****


    AKT/SH/SKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552917) Visitor Counter : 1493
    
    
    
    
    

5.