      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan inaugurates seminar on ‘International Standards and the Fourth Industrial Revolution’ organised by Bureau of Indian Standards to celebrate World Standards Day 2018
      Posted On: 15 NOV 2018 5:52PM by PIB Delhi


    Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) organised a seminar on “International Standards and the Fourth Industrial Revolution” in New Delhi to celebrate the World Standards Day 2018. The event was inaugurated by Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan in the presence of the Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution and Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Shri C.R. Chaudhary. Today’s event was the culmination of the four curtain raisers which dovetails the four regional events into a finale event with presentations by the experts followed by panel discussion on “India’s way forward for Industrial Revolution 4.0”. Marking the event, Union Minister Shri Ram Vilas Paswan also released Pre Standardisation Study Report on Smart Manufacturing and launched the revamped website of BIS.


    Union Minister Shri Ram Vilas Paswan in his address highlighted the relevance of the theme to India’s aspirations to be among the top in the emerging fields of manufacturing. Shri Paswan also appreciated the efforts of BIS in the direction of developing Standards to support the same and said that the release of ‘Pre Standardisation Study Report on Smart Manufacturing’ is a right step in this direction.


    In his special address, the Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Shri C. R. Chaudhary said that the technical force of the country needs to make the ambition of the Hon’ble Prime Minister a reality through the Industrial Revolution 4.0. He asserted that the report being released is a right step in this direction.


    Director General, BIS, Smt. Surina Rajan in her address emphasised on the need for Standardization to enable growth in all facets of the economy. On the release of the revamped website of BIS she said that the new interface will enable easy access to all stakeholders and will give user a rich experience.


    The technical sessions and panel discussions were enriching for the audiences as eminent speakers like Sh. Venkat Sarma, Head Delivery IoT & MES Practice L&T Infotech, Prof. Asim Tewari, Head, NCAIR, IIT Bombay, Sh. Vidyabhushana Hande, Head, Simulation Solutions, SIEMENS and Dr. Allabaksh Naikodi, Head, R&D Mahindra Electric not only shared their valuable thoughts during the sessions but also answered queries.


    Each year, ISO decides a theme of the World Standards Day based on a current aspects of standardization. The theme of this year “International Standards and Industrial Revolution 4.0” is very relevant as the industry is embracing new technologies for automation along with artificial intelligence making use of advanced communication modes. The theme has far reaching impact on a vibrant nation like India with its large industrial base and is the need of the hour with India taking up the ambitious Make in India program. To enable an impactful outreach with the future generation, four curtain raiser seminars were held in premier educational institutions on the various facets of Industrial Revolution 4.0. The seminars were held at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, IIT – Bombay, IIT- Guwahati and IIT- Kanpur. The topic of seminars were around Smart Energy Storage, Smart Manufacturing and Block-chain, Green technology and Sustainability and 5G.


    World Standards Day, is an international day of observance recognized world over since 1970. This annual event is celebrated across the globe jointly with the International Electro-technical (IEC), the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). This occasion provides a perfect opportunity to reflect how Standards work in the real world, and the benefits they bring to business, society and the environment.


    *****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552886) Visitor Counter : 682