      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Prime Minister Hails the Spectacular Growth of Next Generation Transport Infrastructure in the Country In The Last Four Years
      
      launches a series of highways, waterways and sewerage infrastructure projects in varanasi
      
      
      Shri Nitin Gadkari says, enough water will be ensured in river ganga for its unrestricted flow

      Posted On: 12 NOV 2018 6:55PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has said that Varanasi and the whole country are witness to the fulfilment of a dream today. Expressing happiness at the way next generation transport infrastructure has grown in the last four years he said, airports in remote areas, train network expanding to the north eastern parts of the country and a grand network of roads even in rural areas is now the identity of his government.


    The Prime Minister was speaking in Varanasi at two events to launch a series of national highways, inland waterways and sewerage infrastructure projects in the city today. Dedicating the inland waterways multi modal terminal on river Ganga to the nation he said the project will reconnect us to our glorious past, and link Eastern Uttar Pradesh to the North Eastern parts of the country. He also said that the modern road between Babatpur airport and Varanasi will attract tourists from all parts of the country. The Ring Road built at a cost of Rs 760 crore will ease the traffic in the city. He said, connectivity not only improves opportunities, it also strengthens the belief and confidence of the people.


    Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Road Transport & Highways and Shipping Shri Nitin Gadkari said that work is on for ensuring enough draught in River Ganga from its origin in Gangotri to its last point in Gangasagar in West Bengal. He said, during the forthcoming Kumbh, ferries will run between Varanasi and Prayagraj. Shri Gadkari said, as many as 268 water cleaning projects worth a thousand crore rupees are being undertaken in the country. In a recent examination of water quality at 80 places on Ganga, water was found pure at 55 sites. He expressed hope that these efforts will bear fruit and by coming March, 70 to 80 per cent Ganga will become pure.


    The Prime Minister dedicated to the nation, two important national highways in Varanasi, having a total length of 34 kilometres and constructed at a cost of Rs 1571.95 crore. The 16.55 km Varanasi Ring Road Phase-I has been completed at a cost of Rs 759.36 crore, while the work of four-laning and construction of 17.25 km Babatput-Varanasi road on NH-56 has cost Rs 812.59 crore. The Babatpur Airport highway links Varanasi to the airport and goes on to Jaunpur, Sultanpur and Lucknow. With a flyover at Harhua and an ROB at Tarna, the road will reduce the travel time from Varanasi to the airport. This will prove a big relief to the people of Varanasi and to tourists and other visitors to the city.


    The Ring Road, with two ROBs and a flyover, will provide a way for traffic on NH 56 (Lucknow-Varanasi), NH 233 (Azamgarh-Varanasi), NH 29 (Gorakhpur-Varanasi ) and Ayodhya – Varanasi highways to bypass Varanasi city, thereby reducing traffic congestion in the city. This will reduce travel time, fuel usage and pollution in the area. The Ring Road will provide easier and more convenient access to Sarnath, an important site for Buddhist pilgrimage. These projects will also provide increased employment opportunities, development of small and medium industries and give a boost to economic development in the area.


    The Prime Minister also dedicated to the nation an inland waterways terminal on river Ganga in Varanasi. This is the first of the four multi modal terminals being constructed on NW-I (River Ganga) as part of the World Bank aided Jal Marg Vikas project of the Inland Waterways Authority of India. The other three terminals are under construction at Sahibganj, Haldia and Gazipur. The project would enable commercial navigation of vessels with capacity of 1500-2,000 DWT on river Ganga. PM also received the country’s first container consignment to be sent on an inland waterways vessel. This consignment containing cargo of the food and beverage company Pepsico set sail from Kolkata in the last week of October.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi also dedicated to the nation three sewage infrastructure projects costing Rs 425.41 crore for the city of Varanasi and laid the foundation stone for another project. The first is a 140 MLD Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at Dinapur built at a cost of Rs 235.53 Crore. The project includes 10 years’ Operation & Maintenance agreement. The second project includes three sewage pumping stations at Chaukaghat (140 MLD), Phulwaria (7.6 MLD) and Saraiya (3.7 MLD). The total cost for the three pumping stations was Rs 34.01. The third project is the construction of 28 km long relieving trunk sewer, rising mains and interceptor sewers along Varuna & Assi at a cost of Rs 155.87 Crore.


    PM laid the foundation stone for Sewerage Management Scheme for Ramnagar. This will include a 10 MLD STP and intercepting and diverting 4 drains. The sewerage projects will result in increasing the sewage treatment capacity in the city from 102 MLD to 242 MLD. The long term O&M provision will ensure that the STP is not only created but is being operated and maintained properly. These projects will result in reducing the pollution of the river Ganga.


    These project along with 2 other ongoing projects of 120 MLD at Goitha and 50 MLD STP at Ramana will take the sewage treatment capacity in the city to 412 MLD, which will be adequate for the sewage treatment requirements till year 2035.


    ***


    NP/MS/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1552512) Visitor Counter : 527