      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      India International Trade Fair 2018 Opens
      Posted On: 14 NOV 2018 4:15PM by PIB Delhi


    Dr. Mahesh Sharma and C. R. Chaudhary unveiling the catalogue of the IITF-2018


    The 38 th edition of India International Trade Fair (IITF) 2018 was inaugurated by the Minister of State for Commerce & Industry, C.R. Chaudhary at Pragati Maidan in New Delhi today. The flagship event of India Trade Promotion Organisation(ITPO) will continue from 14 th to 27 th November 2018.


    Speaking on this occasion C. R. Chaudhary said that the services sector has assumed significance as India is now moving from a primary product exporting country to the secondary and services sector. He stressed that along with increase in production there is also the need to maintain quality of products. Commenting on the theme of the trade fair which is rural enterprises, Chaudhary said that 40 % of manufactures are from the MSME sector in rural areas of the country and need to be taken care of.


    Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State for Culture (Independent Charge), Minister of State for Environment, Forest and Climate Change,who was also present on the occasion, said that India is now the sixth largest economy in the world. He congratulated ITPO for organizing this year’s fair in a limited space because of the ongoing construction work in the premises. He further said that the IITF offers an opportunity to showcase Indian tradition, culture and enterprising activities under a single umbrella.


    This edition of IITF assumes special significance as it marks the beginning of the150 th birth anniversary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi. All States, government organizations and other stake holders are making all efforts to realize the vision of the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, of ‘Sab ka Saath, Sab kaVikas’. The theme pavilion of the Fair has been setup by the Ministry of Rural Development.The fair also showcases various initiatives of the Government of India like Make in India, Startup India, Digital India, Skill India and Swachh Bharat.


    The partner countryis the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the focus country is the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal. The focus state is Jharkhand.


    Around 800 participants from States, government departments, domestic and international companies are taking part with considerable participation of rural artisans, craftsmen and SME entrepreneurs.The Fair has registered foreign participation from Afghanistan, China, Hong Kong, Kyrgyzstan, Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, South Africa, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey, Tunisia, Vietnam and UAE.


    ***


    MM/ SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1552718) Visitor Counter : 3442
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Hindi , Bengali