      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Global Cooling Innovation Summit to be inaugurated in New Delhi.
      
      To achieve dramatic breakthroughs in cooling technologies ,Global Cooling Prize to be launched by Union Environment Minister.

      Posted On: 09 NOV 2018 6:19PM by PIB Delhi

    Two-day Global Cooling Innovation Summit will be inaugurated by Union Science & Technology Minister, Dr. Harsh Vardhan in New Delhi on 12 th November 2018. The Summit is a first-of-its-kind solutions-focused event that will bring together leaders from around the world to explore concrete means and pathways to address the climate threat that comes from the growing demand from room air conditioners . The event is jointly organized by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, along with Rocky Mountain Institute, Alliance for An Energy Efficient Economy (AEEE), Conservation X Labs and CEPT University.


    The summit will also see the launching of Global Cooling Prize— Mission Innovation challenge that aims to spur development of a residential cooling solution that has at least five times (5x) less climate impact than today's standard. Global Cooling Prize is a competition with global reach and participation to achieve dramatic breakthroughs in cooling technologies. The objective of this competition would be to develop a cooling technology that requires radically less energy to operate, utilizes refrigerants with no ozone depletion potential and with low global warming potential, and has the potential to be cost-effective at scale.


    This awards programme will call world-wide attention to the most promising ideas across the globe. This award will celebrate successes and facilitate endeavours of innovators through providing recognition, encouragement and support. The award will also be able to build a collaborative platform that can utilize the potential of researchers so that public research contributes towards fostering innovation and create impact which is of social and economic good. This recognition will not only recognise the eminent contributions to clean energy research development and demonstration, but would also motivate younger researchers to focus on innovations needed in clean energy domain to make world a better place to live.


    The Global Cooling Prize and Innovation Summit will see distinguished speakers from around the world- including innovators, philanthropists, venture capitalists , and other industry leaders - converge to participate in discussions over a two day period.


    Panellists at the Summit will share their perspective on solving the cooling challenge, w ith discussions on the currently available public policy tools and how those may be informed or enhanced as a result of new innovations in the space.


    ***


    RDS/GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552336) Visitor Counter : 1481