      Election Commission

      Election Commission Of India Today Announced The Launch of Its Newly Designed Website
      Posted On: 12 NOV 2018 7:02PM by PIB Delhi


    The Election Commission of India today announced the launch of its newly designed website at https://eci.gov.in . The completely revamped website features a streamlined and simplified design, improved functionality, and enriched content areas which will help visitors to make well-informed decisions regarding their election-related matters.


    The new website has been built keeping users in mind. The streamlined user interface provides a more interactive experience, allowing users to easily find the information they are looking for. Visitors can browse the website based on their own interests and learn more about Election Process in a more engaging way.


    With a fresh look and feel, the new site offers users the opportunity to navigate through Election Commission of India extensive resource and service offering with ease. Delivering a fully responsive experience, the new website gives users a seamless transition from desktop to mobile browsing, and intelligently pulls the latest content from all the relevant space for users to access information, quickly and easily.


    Departing from the legacy format of separate areas, the new visitor sees everything rehoused in one central space with the ability to browse content based on topic or division.


    “ We are excited about the launch of our new site, we hope every citizen will be able to find information on the Election Commission of India website with ease. Visitors would love the new look and feel of the site, especially the new navigation where all of ECI content is available in one place. The revamped website demonstrates our commitment to free, fair and inclusive elections. The new site is an important piece for our voter-centric strategy and aligns ECI digital platform much more closely to ECI vision ”- says Sh. O.P Rawat, Chief Election Commissioner.


    New Features of the site include

     1. Responsive Design : The New Website is fully mobile optimized. The mobile-optimized ECI site is a far more advanced website. Mobile optimized means that the ECI site will reformat itself for handheld or tablet devices. Larger navigation buttons, the reformatted content, and differently optimized images appear when the user is on an iPhone/ Android or another device. Not only is the new ECI website mobile optimized, but it is also with a fully responsive design. Responsive design means that ECI site is completely flexible regardless of device. Rather than detecting a specific browser type or device type, the website automatically orients itself based on the screen size of the device. A combination of reformatting and re-optimizing the site as a whole provides a practical flexibility beyond imagination.
     2. Revamped and easy navigation : The site has been primarily designed keeping in view Citizens, Electors, Candidates, Political party, Researchers, Media, and ECI Officials. The categorization has also been kept in mind for purposes of easy navigation and role-based access control. The new website has further enhanced the security features keeping in view the Cyber Security Regulations of ECI
     3. Advance search : “Surface the most compelling content”. With a number of powerful tools to help users to discover the new content, the new website decreases the time users will spend searching for relevant content of his choice. A full search engine is included with precise controls for finding content. With a wide range of filters available and the ability to drill down by content type, finding relevant content is simple. It's convenient too - the quick search box is available on every page.
     4. Universally Accessible : The site has been made accessible for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs). The newly designed website has accessible features like screen reader access, high contrast, structured headings e.t.c
     5. Dynamic Content & Sharing : One of the paramount requirements of the modern world is faster information sharing through various social media platform. The new ECI website provides extensive sharing features through modes such as Email, Facebook, Twitter, and others. The decentralized content deployment will ensure accurate and fast dissemination of news, circulars, and messages.

    As the existing website was familiar to many users, Commission had made sure that the existing website continues to operate for a short while. The existing website will continue to be available at https://eci.nic.in and the new website will be operational at https://eci.gov.in .


    Changes to the ECI Website appearance and design will be apparent to any person visiting the website who has been familiar with the earlier version. The ECI ICT Division has significantly modernized this user interface to accommodate a growing user-base, as the Election Commission of India continues to branch out into new technology areas and caters for massive information dissemination requirements for its 875 million Electors during the upcoming elections.


    ...


    SBS/AC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552514) Visitor Counter : 903
    
    
    
    
    

5.