      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDMA conducts training programme for CBRN emergencies at Bengaluru airport
      Posted On: 12 NOV 2018 2:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) is conducting a basic training programme at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru. The six-day training programme, aimed at enhancing the preparedness of Airport Emergency Handlers (AEHs) to respond to CBRN emergencies at the airports, started today. CBRN emergencies pertain to threats emanating due to Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear material.


    The training programme is being conducted in collaboration with the Airport Authority of India (AAI), Institute of Nuclear Medicine & Allied Sciences (INMAS) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF).


    Handling CBRN emergencies need specialised skills and efforts. In fact, even a small CBRN related event can cause panic among people at the airports. This training programme will improve the CBRN safety at our airports by enabling the AEHs to handle any CBRN emergency.


    The programme consists of lectures as well as field training, including live demonstrations of detection and decontamination including use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Besides equipping the AEHs to handle CBRN emergencies, the training programme will also enable them to provide medical first aid and initial psycho-social support.


    Experts from stakeholder departments such as Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), INMAS, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), National Institute of Mental Health & Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) and Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) will train the participants.


    A total of 50 participants representing various agencies responsible for operation and maintenance of the airport will be trained on various aspects of CBRN emergencies. Another 150 working level staff will be sensitized on the subject in a half day module.


    This is the tenth in a series of such programmes being conducted at airports across the country to enable AEHs to respond suitably till the arrival of specialised response teams. Nine batches have already been trained - one each in Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Varanasi, Patna, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Chandigarh and Raipur.


    *******


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552461) Visitor Counter : 498
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi