      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi will inaugurate “Hunar Haat” at India International Trade Fair, New Delhi
      
      Hunar Haat will provide market and opportunity to Master Artisans and Craftsmen

      Posted On: 13 NOV 2018 12:53PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi will inaugurate the “Hunar Haat” on 15 th November, 2018 at India International Trade Fair (IITF) at Pragati Maidan in New Delhi. The IITF will be organized from 14 th to 27 th November, 2018.


    Shri Naqvi today said that “Hunar Haat”, being organised across the country by the Ministry of Minority Affairs has proved to be “Empowerment & Employment Exchange” for master artisans and craftsmen. “Hunar Haat” at Pragati Maidan, is a part of series of “Hunar Haat”, being organised in various parts of the country under a mission to provide market and opportunity to master artisans and craftsmen.


    The Minister said that master artisans, including a large number of women artisans, from across the country are participating in the “Hunar Haat”. The artisans will brought with them very exquisite pieces of Handicraft & Handloom work products like Ajarakh, Bagh print, Bandhej, Barmer Ajrakh & Applique, Bidriware, Cane and Bamboo, Carpet, Chanderi, Chaniya Choli, Chikankari, Copper Bell Product, Copperware, Ceramic Products, Dry Flowers, Gota Pati, Handloom & Home Furnishings from different parts of the country. Products such as Jute Craft, Lac stone studded Bangles, Lacquerware, Linen Products, Metalware, Mudwork, Mulberry Silk, Paithani Silk, Phulkari, Punjabi Jutti, Zari Bags, etc will also be available there. For the first time, products from Chhattisgarh and Namda and Chinnon Silk of Jammu & Kashmir will also be available in this “Hunar Haat” at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi.


    Shri Naqvi said that the employment oriented programmes of the Central Government like “Hunar Haat” has significantly encouraged and promoted the rich traditional heritage of master artisans who had been marginalised for a long time. He said that “Hunar Haat” has become a “credible brand” to fulfil Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s commitment to “Make in India”, “Stand up India” and “Start up India”. During the last one year, “Hunar Haat”, organised at various parts of the country, has been successful in providing employment and marketing opportunities to more than 1 lakh 50 thousand artisans and other people associated with them. The target is to provide employment and marketing opportunities to about 5 lakh people through “Hunar Haat”.


    The Minister said that “Hunar Haat” has significantly encouraged and promoted the rich traditional heritage of master artisans. “Hunar Haat” has been successful in providing national and international markets and employment-marketing opportunities to master artisans and craftsmen. “Hunar Haat” has become a credible and renowned brand where exquisite Handicraft & Handloom made by master artisans and various delicacies from across the country are available under one roof.


    Earlier, “Hunar Haat” had been organised at Allahabad (Sept, 2018), at Pragati Maidan (2016, 2017) and Baba Kharak Singh Marg (2017, 2018) New Delhi; at Puducherry (2017, 2018) and at Mumbai (2017). In the coming days, “Hunar Haat” will be organised at Mumbai (December 2018), Baba Kharak Singh Marg, New Delhi (January 2019) and Goa (February 2019).


    *****


    RCJ/FH/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552555) Visitor Counter : 890
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi