      Ministry of Tourism

      Ministry of Tourism rolls out online Certification programme for Tourist Facilitators
      Posted On: 15 NOV 2018 7:27PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Tourism Secretary , Smt. Rashmi Verma rolled out the Incredible India Tourist Facilitator Certification (IITFC) Programme in New Delhi, today . The Union Tourism Minister, Shri. K.J. Alphons, had earlier launched the IITFC on 27 th September, 2018 on the occasion of National Tourism Awards function & World Tourism Day. With its roll out today, the participants will now be able to register for this programme through an online digital platform. IITFC will enable Indian citizens to develop and enhance the skills associated with tourism, and where one can incorporate knowledge about facilitating tourists across the country.


    The certification program comprises of basic and advanced self-paced courses designed in a manner that the users can learn at their own time, space, path and pace. The course kicks off today with a basic introductory module alongside the registration process. This will be followed by payment initiation on 19 th November 2018, where any 10+2 pass out candidate can enroll in the basic course comprising of 7 modules aimed at training the facilitators for knowledge, skills and attitude domains at a nominal charge of INR2000. Successful completion of this program would enable the learner to become a Certified Tourist Facilitator of Ministry of Tourism, Government of India . A refresher course is also proposed for launch in due time for those already in the field seeking at an advanced level course to enhance their skill set.


    Speaking on the occasion Smt. Rashmi Verma said that the concept of ‘tourist guide’ has changed world over and the new age tourist facilitators are ‘story tellers’. The Secretary added that this online programme will have lot of advantages like job creation for local people, harness the local experience and traditional knowledge and also it has the flexibility of any age or any place people to join. This initiative will also ensure an enriching experience for the tourists, as this initiative will address the issue of shortage of tourist guides as well as it will provide a lot of competition which will further ensure in providing best tourist facilitators, the Secretary added.


    The IITFC program aspires to reach out to a far-flung audience encompassing a diversity of candidates ranging from an enthusiastic student who has recently qualified for higher secondary to an ambitious homemaker willing to grasp tourist facilitation skills from the comfort of their home. It will also act as an enabler for transforming a local citizen with no specified skills having proficiency in a regional language into a potential bread earner for their households.


    The online learning management programme has been developed by M/s Wipro Limited and the content supported by the Indian Institute of Tourism & Travel Management.


    During this event, the Ministry also exchanged four MoUs with M/s. Yatra Online under ‘Adopt-a-Heritage’, ‘Apni Dharohar Apni Pehchan’ for adoption of (i) Qutub Minar in New Delhi (ii) Ajanta Caves in Maharashtra (iii) Leh Palace in Jammu and Kashmir and (iv) Hazara Rama Temple and Hampi in Karnataka.


    *****


    NB/JP/Tourism


    

    
    (Release ID: 1552919) Visitor Counter : 828
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi