      Vice President's Secretariat

      Be flexible, adaptable, open & dynamic and strive to reform outdated government practices: Vice President tells civil servants
      
      Harmonize the social, cultural, linguistic, religious & economic differences in the country;
      
      Civil Services are the greatest contribution of Sardar Patel;
      
      Let common man have a say; include him in decision making & in setting development agendas;
      
      Adopt a more empathetic, responsive and inclusive approach;
      
      Pandit Nehru saw true nationalism as the collective well being of entire population;
      
      Possess the commitment to serve people; It will be dedicated offering to our motherland;
      
      Interacts with Civil Service Officers

      Posted On: 14 NOV 2018 6:05PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has asked the Civil Service Officers to be flexible, adaptable, open & dynamic and strive to reform outdated government practices. He was interacting with the Civil Service Officers of 93rd Foundation Course at the Dr. Marri Channa Reddy Human Resource Development Institute, in Hyderabad today.


    The Vice President said that civil service officers have the most important role of translating “Swarajya” to “Surajya”. Each citizen and each person in this country must feel that there is a perceptible improvement in the quality of life, he added.


    Shri Naidu said that hopes and aspirations of the country rest upon the able shoulders of civil servants. He asked officers not to remain static and let complacency set in. He said that civil servants cannot be bogged down by the tendency to adhere to status quo.


    The Vice President said that they should be flexible, adaptable, open and dynamic and must be agile and proactive. They should forever remain connected to the pulse of the common man who you are expected to serve, he added.


    The Vice President stressed up on the need to adopt corruption free, citizen-centric and business friendly governance so that the fruits of development reach the last man in the line.


    Remembering the Iron Man of India, Sardar Patel, the Vice President said that it was he who brainchild the idea of an All India Service. He believed that the idea of united India would not be complete without a competent higher civil service that is independent.


    Talking about the first Prime Minister of Independent India, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, the Vice President said that leaders like him have left a lasting legacy for all of us. Their vision was of attaining true freedom for each citizen, he said.


    Pandit Nehru and the iconic leaders who fought for our freedom envisaged a resurgent India. They saw India as Bharat Mata and true nationalism as the collective well being of entire population, he said.


    Saying that All India as well as the central services has a crucial role in national integration and national development, Vice President said that they have the unique responsibility of harmonizing the social, cultural, linguistic, religious and economic differences in the country.


    Shri Naidu called up on all the civil services officers to work together in unison, complementing and supporting each other with their specific domain experiences and expertise so that India’s growth story gets the much required momentum and direction.


    The Vice President asked the officers to learn from the best practices within and outside India, from both the private as well as the public sector. Strive to reform outdated government practices. Often, you don’t have to reinvent the wheel, you would just need to adopt, adapt and scale up best practices, he added.


    Saying that enlightened citizenry of today does not want to remain merely recipients of welfare dole outs, Shri Naidu tasked the officers to make citizens have a say in matters that decide their own fate by including the common man in decision making and in setting development agendas.


    Asking them to adopt ‘empathy’, efficiency’, ‘impartiality’ and ‘incorruptibility’ as guiding principles to emerge as effective, responsive administrators, Vice President Naidu called on civil service officers to act as ambassadors of progressive thought processes.


    He said that the administration has to adopt a more empathetic, responsive and inclusive approach so that the intended benefits of the policies and programmes of our government reach the people on time. We should aim at greater ‘efficiency’ and ‘effectiveness’, he said.


    The Home Minister of Telangana, Shri Naini Narasimha Reddy, the Director General of the Dr. Marri Channa Reddy Human Resource Development Institute, Shri B.P. Acharya, faculty and more than 316 officer trainees representing different states were present at the venue.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552765) Visitor Counter : 712