      Election Commission

      Commission deputes a high level team to Mizoram led by Sh. Sudeep Jain, Deputy Election Commissioner for deliberations
      Posted On: 07 NOV 2018 7:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Election Commission of India had deputed a team of Officers to discuss various issues related to ensuing Mizoram Assembly Elections. ECI Team held a detailed discussion on 6th November 2018 at Aizwal with the leaders and representatives of All NGO Coordination Committee, comprising Central YMA, Mizoram Senior Citizen Association, Mizoram Women Federation, Mizo Student Association & Mizo Student Union and Mizoram Church Leaders Committee. The meetings were conducted in a very cordial atmosphere in which various issues were deliberated threadbare after which a joint resolution of NGO Coordination Committee signed by Mr. Vanlalruata, Mr. L. Ramdinliana Renthlei, Mr. Vanlalliana Khiangte, Mr R K Thanga, Ms Saipui & Mr Lalhmachhuana was submitted to ECI on 7th November, 2018.


    The Commission appreciates the glorious tradition of people of Mizoram to always have a very peaceful election. Considering the urgency of the matter, a full Commission meeting was convened today (7th November 2018) to further build on this mutual understanding. After due deliberations on the resolution, the Commission, while accepting the broad contours of the resolution passed by the All NGO Coordination Committee Mizoram, decided to depute a higher level ECI Team led by Deputy Election Commissioner Mr Sudeep Jain, incharge of Mizoram to have further discussion on 9th November 2018 at Aizwal with the representatives of All NGO, Mizoram on their Resolution. Other members of the team would comprise of Mr. Lalbiakthanga Khiangte, CEO, Jharkhand, Mr SB Joshi, Secretary, ECI and Ms. Lalzarmawii, Additional CEO, Mizoram.


    The Commission has expressed its serious concern at the violent incident at Kolasib yesterday. The Commission expects that, keeping with the ethos and tradition of peaceful society in Mizoram, all stakeholders will sincerely work together so that no such incident recurs in future during the entire election process and elections are conducted peacefully with maximum participation as always.


    *****


    SBS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552066) Visitor Counter : 695