      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s address at the Guru Nanak Jayanti celebrations at the residence of Shri Sukhbir Singh Badal
      Posted On: 23 NOV 2018 10:30PM by PIB Delhi


    My best wishes to you all for Guru Purab. Probably it's because of the blessings of Guru Nanak Dev ji and the great Guru Parampara that an ordinary person like me has got the opportunity to do some good and pious work. So, whatever good work is being done today is just because of the blessings of the elders and saintly men. We are of little significance. Therefore, I don't deserve this respect. These great personalities and the elders, who have, for centuries, created this nation and saved this nation with their sacrifices and penance, deserve all the respect.


    When the devastating earthquake of Gujarat took place, the Lakhpat region of Kutch was also affected where the Gurdwara associated with Guru Nanak Dev ji existed. His wooden footwear is still there. The Gurdwara was ruined due to the earthquake. After I was elected as the Chief Minister of Gujarat, the first task at hand was to undertake reconstruction work for the Kutch earthquake victims. I also visited the badly damaged Gurdwara . With the blessings of the parampara, it dawned on to me that I would have to do something about it and I decided to rebuild it. However, there was one concern. We had to look for the right kind of people and the same material that was used to build it; exactly in the same way it used to be. Today that place is among the world heritage sites.


    After we started the UDAN scheme as a mode for cheap air travel, Nanded Sahib was one of the first two places that came under its ambit. I just hope that the blessings of Nanded Sahib remain with me. I was fortunate to have worked in Punjab for several years and consequently I could know and understand a lot of things by living in Punjab with you all, being close to Badal ji's family, which would not have been possible had I stayed in Gujarat. I always believed that there is a special relationship between Gujarat and Punjab because one of the 'Punj-Pyaare' belonged to Gujarat's Dwarika. Therefore, we have built a hospital after the name of Guru Govind Singh ji, in the Jamnagar district where Dwarika falls. The great personalities in every corner of our country had provided all the mantras of unity for our country and the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev ji have the essence of our country's cultural traditions. We can feel it in the Gurbani. We can feel oneness. Each word explains everything in a lucid way and guides us. It has addressed all the social evils and issues prevalent at that time like class differences very lucidly. It attempted to end the class and caste differences, to promote unity and to ensure that everything is done with devotion to God. May such great traditions keep inspiring everyone! Nothing can be greater than Gurbani, Guru Nanak ji's directions and message of unity and integrity. We have such a strong message for the country's unity and integrity.


    I believe that whatever may have happened to Kartarpur in 1947 has happened. Certain things happen between the governments and the militaries; let it be so. When there will be a way out only time will tell that. However, people to people contact is a great strength. Who could have thought that the Berlin Wall would fall? Who knows, probably, with the blessings of Guru Nanak ji the Kartarpur corridor will not just be a corridor but could prove to be a reason for connecting people. Every word of Gurbani can provide us with strength. We are the people who have been brought up with the ideology of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' i.e., ‘the world is one family'. We are those who never wish anything wrong for others. Just imagine, about 550 years ago when there were no proper means of transportation, Guru Nanak Dev ji had travelled the entire country from Assam to Kutch on foot. He had assimilated the entire India within himself through Padyatra. Such was his meditation and penance! Today, let this Gurpurab bring to all of us a new zeal, enthusiasm and inspiration that will give us all the strength for maintaining the country's unity and integrity. There is strength in togetherness. The great tradition of Langar is not just a system of serving food but is a value and our heritage. There is no discrimination. Such a great contribution has been made in such a simple way. On this holy occasion today, in the presence of the Guru Granth Sahib, bowing down to this great tradition, saluting the great sacrifices of the Gurus and their penance, the respect that you have given me, is not mine. This honour belongs to this great tradition. No matter how much we contribute, it's not enough. May we get all the strength to do better work! Once again I express my gratitude to you all.


    ***


    AKT/SH/IG/MG/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553694) Visitor Counter : 592
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Assamese , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada