      Vice President's Secretariat

      Love and Service was the message of Sri. Sathya Sai Baba. His message is universal and timeless and his life is an inspiration to people across the globe: VP
      
      We must follow the path shown by Sri Sathya Sai Baba and not let material comforts of modern life dictate our lives;
      
      Everyone must work towards building India that is free from discrimination, poverty, hunger. People including politicians must work towards achieving such objectives;
      
      Younger generations must be enlightened about the rich spiritual heritage of India;
      
      Government’s initiatives, policies and programs require the active participation of the civil society, the private sector, and the academic and charitable organizations.
      
      Presents the Sri Sathya Sai Awards for Human Excellence in Bengaluru today.
      Posted On: 23 NOV 2018 7:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India Shri M Venkaiah Naidu has said that youth must aim high and strive hard, be rooted in the Indian ethos but be willing to learn from the best in the world. He said that a combination of courage and competence is required to set benchmarks in life.


    He presented the Sri Sathya Sai Award for Human Excellence that recognizes individuals, who are doing tremendous work to uplift the society in various parts of the world, at a gathering at World Youth Meet in Bangalore, today.


    Shri Naidu said they left a legacy of love, compassion, devotion and service to humanity. India is truly blessed to have Shri. Sathya Sai Baba’s divine presence in the countless individuals and institutions who continue to selflessly serve fellow human beings. He expressed his appreciation for Sri Sathya Sai LokaSeva Group for being one among such institutions.


    The Vice President said that India has a great spiritual heritage that has shown humanity the path of devotion and service. He said that people like Sri Sathya Sai Baba and Guru Nanak inspire millions through their lives and their teachings that are relevant for all times to come. ‘ Love and Service was the message of Baba. His message is universal and timeless and his life is an inspiration to people across the globe’, he added.


    ‘We must dispel this darkness and illuminate our pathways through knowledge, wisdom, understanding and love. This is the path that has been shown by Indian sages from Vedic times. This is the path that holy saints like Guru Nanak and Sathya Sai Baba also have shown us’, he said.


    The Vice President said that we must follow the path shown by Shri Sathya Sai Baba andnot let material comforts of modern life dictate our lives. He added that we must imbibe the qualities of service, caring and sharing. Shri. Naidu reasoned that the younger generations must be enlightened about the rich spiritual heritage of India. ‘Everyone must work towards building India that is free from discrimination, poverty, hunger. People including politicians must work towards achieving such objectives’, he said.


    The Vice President said that education system must lay a strong foundation based on Indian values and ethos and added that organizations like Sathya Sai Trust must contribute in realizing the demographic advantage by equipping the youth with the required skills, right attitude, knowledge and wisdom.


    India with nearly 65% of our population being less than 35 years of age, has a great opportunity to excel. ‘Youth represent the energy that will drive India of the future. Their knowledge and imagination, competence and confidence, their risk-taking ability and multi-tasking ability, their agility and adaptability will change the course of India’s development’, he said.


    Shri Naidu said that India is moving forward rapidly on the path of progress and is emerging as a strong economic force. ‘We are a truly aspirational India that is at the cusp of a major transformation in the way we govern ourselves and the way we respond to the challenges of an uncertain but constantly changing world’ he said.


    Vice President said that the Government’s initiatives, effective policies and programs require the active participation of the civil society, the private sector, and the academic and charitable organizations like PrashantiBalamandira Trust to transform India.


    The Governor of Karnataka Shri. VajubhaiVala and other dignitaries bore witness to the ceremony.


    *********


    AKT/BK/MS/RK


    The following is the full text of the Vice President’s address:


    “I am indeed delighted to be with all of you at the World Youth Meet and address this congregation of youth from India and several countries.


    I am also happy that seven outstanding persons are being awarded Sri Sathya Sai Award for Human Excellence.


    Today is a Holy day – Karthika Purnima – a day when we light lamps to dispel darkness. It is also a very important day as it is the birth anniversary of two leading lights of Indian spiritual heritage who have shown humanity the path of devotion and service. We humbly pay our respects to Sri Sathya Sai Baba and Guru Nanak on this most auspicious day. Their lives and their message has a great relevance for our times and possibly for a long time to come.


    In India, we have always prayed that we should have the strength to light up many lamps to dispel darkness, as we say, “TamasomaJyotirgamaya”.


    There are always many forces that cloud our vision. There are dark human instincts that prevent us from realizing our strength and making us reach the heights of excellence. There are numerous pitfalls and whirlpools of conflict and irrational hatred.


    We must dispel this darkness and illuminate our pathways through knowledge, wisdom, understanding and love.


    This is the path that has been shown by Indian sages from Vedic times.


    This is the path that holy saints like Guru Nanak and Sathya Sai Baba also have shown us.


    As we celebrate Baba’s birth anniversary today, let us remind ourselves of the great legacy he has left behind. It is a legacy of love, compassion, devotion and service to humanity. We are truly blessed to have his divine presence in the countless individuals and institutions who continue to selflessly serve fellow human beings. I am happy that Sri Sathya Sai LokaSeva Group is among such institutions.


    I am pleased that inspired by Sri Sathya Sai Baba’s immortal message, your organization has taken up several welfare projects in the fields of education, healthcare and nutrition.


    Baba had transformed Puttaparthy, a small village into an international centre of excellence in education, healthcare and rural development.


    He took up drinking water and irrigation projects.


    This incredible transformation was possible because of his selfless spirit of service, his unbounded love for humanity and his universal vision.


    This is quintessentially the attitude of a true Guru. He provides direction, handholds when required and leads all of us to a better life. His spiritual leadership is based on a strong humanistic foundation. This is what Swami means to all of us.


    Excellent education, excellent healthcare, excellent social services being made available to common citizens.


    Excellence was his watchword and it is that spirit of excellence that we are celebrating today in the award ceremony as well as in the University you have established.


    I am happy that, under your stewardship, as many as 29 educational institutions are providing free education in 14 districts of Karnataka and one district of Telangana, apart from a free university, serving over 3500 children. In the health sector, two paediatric cardiac hospitals are providing free treatment and over 6,000 children have operated upon, while over 50,000 ailing children from all states of the country were treated.


    I am also glad that over 1.2 lakh children are being provided nutritious breakfast in 15 States and two union territories. In addition, several and several human development and spiritual centres are running across the globe.


    I am given to understand that four more educational institutions will come up in four more districts of Karnataka in a few months, while a paediatric cardiac hospital is due to open in Navi Mumbai later this month. I am happy to note that the nutrition program will be expanded to cover 5 lakh children and one lakh pregnant women by March 2019.


    I would like to personally congratulate and convey my deepest appreciation to the selfless devotees of Baba, who are working day and night in these trusts to carry on the humanitarian projects. My deepest appreciation to Sri B N Narasimha Murthy, Chief Mentor of Sri Sathya Sai LokaSeva Group of educational institutions and others.


    The Sri Sathya Sai Award for Human Excellence is a very noble initiative to recognize individuals, who are doing tremendous work to uplift the society in various parts of the world. I congratulate the awardees for their outstanding contribution to society.


    Our country is moving rapidly on the path of progress and is emerging as a strong economic force.


    We are a truly aspirational India that is at cusp of a major transformation in the way we govern ourselves and the way we respond to the challenges of an uncertain but constantly changing world.


    We are a young India with nearly 65% of our population being less than 35 years of age. I am happy to see many young people at the world youth meet today.


    Youth represents the energy that will drive India of the future.


    Their knowledge and imagination, competence and confidence, their risk-taking ability and multi-tasking ability, their agility and adaptability will change the course of India’s development.


    The demographic advantage we have today will yield complete dividends only if youth are equipped with the required skills and attitude, with the knowledge and wisdom.


    I earnestly hope that our educational system, to which organizations like your Trust are contributing, will provide a good foundation for the youth.


    I also hope that the youth will also continue to aim high and strive hard, be rooted in the Indian ethos but be willing to learn from the best in the world.


    Setting high benchmarks requires courage. Achieving them requires competence. I do hope you will have both.


    While the Government is devising effective policies and programs, the massive effort required for this transformation will be possible only with the active participation of the civil society, the private sector, the academic and charitable organizations like your PrashantiBalamandira Trust.


    I do hope you will continue your good work and keep lighting many lamps in the homes and hearts of many more people.


    I would like to once again extend my deepest appreciation for the good work that is being done all of you. May Sathya Sai Baba’s blessings be with all of us and inspire us to do greater deeds in the years to come


    JAI HIND!”

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553689) Visitor Counter : 580