      Ministry of Culture

      Government of India to observe the remembrance of100 years of the historical Jallianwalla Bagh massacre
      Posted On: 23 NOV 2018 6:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Government of India has decided to mark the remembrance of 100 years of the historical Jallianwalla Bagh Massacre next year.The Minister of State for Culture(I/c), Dr Mahesh Sharma visited the Jallianwalla Bagh in Amritsar, Punjab today along with Minister of State (IC) for Housing and Urban Affairs, Shri HardeepSingh Puri and officials from ASI and NBCC to review the preparations for remembrance of 100 years of ‘Jallianwalla Bagh Massacre’ , in 2019.


    In a statement, Dr Mahesh Sharma said, “ As we prepare for remembrance of the “100 years of Jallianwala Bagh Massacre” in 2019, Jallianwala Bagh shall undergo necessary redevelopment and upgradation. Jallianwala Bagh shall continue to remind the young generation about the sacrifices made in freedom struggle.” The Government is planning to renovate the historical site by creating suitable infrastructure for providing basic amenities for the tourists, the Culture Minister said.


    A number of commemorative as well as constructive activities will be taken up during the remembrance period.


    The commemorative coin and postage stamps will be released on 13 th April, 2019 (the day the incident took place 100 years ago).Ministry of Culture will organise cultural activities such as kavi sammelan, plays, exhibition, seminars, etc. across the country.


    A Committee has been constituted to ensure the timely implementation of thefollowing:

     1. provide basic amenities for visitors
     2. renovate, upgrade and beautify the Jallianwalla Bagh Memorial, and
     3. develop Virtual Reality Theme Based show at the Memorial

    The Ministry of Tourism has already earmarked an amount of Rs. 8 crore under Swadesh Darshan Scheme for development of Virtual Reality Theme Based show at the Memorial which will be spent under supervision of the Committee and Ministry of Culture will provide additional funds, if required.


    .


    *****


    NB/PS/UD


    *****


    NB/PS/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553680) Visitor Counter : 1604
    
    
    
    
    

3.