      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Kiren Rijiju to inaugurate NDMA's 14th Formation Day tomorrow
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2018 4:33PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju, will inaugurate the 14 th Formation Day of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) here tomorrow. The theme of this year's Formation Day is Early Warning for Disasters.


    Early warning is a major element of disaster risk reduction and can minimise the loss of lives and economic impacts. Timely early warning is key to a structured and efficient response.


    To be effective, early warning systems need to involve the communities at risk, generate public awareness, effectively disseminate warnings and ensure there is a constant state of preparedness. Over the years, we have made considerable progress in issuing accurate and timely early warning, especially for cyclones. Earlier this month, authorities could evacuate thousands before Cyclone Gaja made its landfall as its path was accurately predicted.


    Stakeholders will discuss the roadmap, their roles and key challenges in issuing timely and accurate early warning and its dissemination to all relevant stakeholders, including the vulnerable communities.


    A manual for training masons on Hazard-resistant Construction and a study report on Gujarat Floods of 2017 will also be released on the occasion. Dr. P. K. Mishra, Additional Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, will deliver the Valedictory address on the occasion.


    NDMA Members and officials, senior officials from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), Ministries/Departments of the Central Government, State Governments, civil society, and ex-Members and Advisory Committee members of NDMA will participate in the event.


    Discussions at the event will increase awareness and aid improvement of our early warning mechanisms for disasters.


    *******


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553877) Visitor Counter : 554
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam