      Ministry of Tourism

      Governor of Tripura Inaugurates 7
      th International Tourism Mart in Agartala, Tripura
      
      53 foreign Delegates from 18 Countries are participating in Mart

      Posted On: 22 NOV 2018 7:50PM by PIB Delhi

    The Governor of Tripura Prof. Kaptan Singh Solanki inaugurated the “7thInternational Tourism Mart for the North-East States” in the presence of Minister of State (I/C) for Tourism Shri K.J Alphons and the Chief Minister of Tripura Shri Biplab Kumar Deb in Agartala, Tripura this evening. Minister for Tourism of Tripura Shri Pranjit Singha Roy, Secretary, M/o Tourism Smt. Rashmi Verma, Director General (Tourism) Shri Satyajeet Rajan and other dignitaries from Central Ministries and North Eastern States were present. The Ministry of Tourism, Government of India has organized the Mart in association with the Department of Tourism, Government of Tripura and the North Eastern States.


    Delivering inaugural address, Prof. Kaptan Singh Solanki dwelt upon many new initiatives taken by the government of India for the promotion of tourism in recent years. He said that development of the tourism sector helps in generating meaningful employment and means of income generation for a large number of people, especially the youth of the state.


    While Shri Biplab Kumar Deb in his speech said that the state government of Tripura has outlined a vision of transforming the state into a model state in the span of next three years. He added that robust development of tourism sector is one of the most significant components towards the development of the state. He also said that with the support from the Union ministry of Tourism, the state government is taking strides for holistic development of the Tourism sector.


    In his address, Shri. K J Alphons emphasised on the overall promotion of tourism in the North eastern states and said that the government of India has started many new programmes and schemes for the development of tourism in north eastern states. The Tourism sector has reached a new height during last 4 years.


    Smt. Rashmi Verma in her opening remarks said that the varied topography of the North East region, with its rich heritage make it an attractive tourist destination and hoped that the deliberations of the Mart will serve its purpose in the promotion of tourism in NE States. She lauded the State of Tripura for having the largest number of tourists in NE region last year.


    A total of 53 foreign delegates from 18 countries namely Australia, Canada, China, France, Indonesia, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, Myanmar, Netherlands, New Zealand, Russia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Thailand, UAE and USA are participating in the Mart. These include Tour Operators & Travel Agents and Media Representatives, Journalists, Travel Writers and Bloggers. Besides the foreign delegates, 26 domestic Tour Operators from other parts of the country and 78 sellers from the North Eastern States are also participating in the Mart. Representatives of State Tourism Departments of the North East States are also present to showcase their tourism destinations and to interact with the delegates. They are engaged in Business-to-Business meetings with sellers from the North Eastern Region. This will enable the tourism product suppliers from the region to reach out to international and domestic buyers, with the objective of promoting tourism to the region.


    Post-mart familiarisation tours to the North Eastern states have been arranged for the international delegates to create awareness about the rich and varied tourism products of the North Eastern region and to give them a first-hand experience of the destination. An exhibition by State Tourism Departments from the North Eastern States including display of beautiful handicrafts and handlooms has been organized to show case the tourism products of respective participating States.


    This is the 7 th edition of the International Tourism Mart, an annual event organised in the North Eastern region with the objective of highlighting the tourism potential of the region in the domestic and international markets. It brings together the tourism business fraternity and entrepreneurs from the eight North Eastern States. The event has been planned and scheduled to facilitate interaction between buyers, sellers, media, Government agencies and other stakeholders.


    The International Tourism Marts are organised every tear in the North Eastern States on rotation basis. The earlier editions of this mart had been held in Guwahati, Tawang, Shillong, Gangtok and Imphal.


    The North East Region of India comprising the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim is endowed with diverse tourist attractions and products. The varied topography of the region, its flora and fauna, the ethnic communities with their rich heritage of ancient traditions and lifestyles, its festivals, arts and crafts, make it a holiday destination waiting to be explored.


    *****


    NB/JP/Tourism/22.11.2018


    

    
    (Release ID: 1553629) Visitor Counter : 410