      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh releases book ‘Radio Kashmir – In Times of Peace & War’
      Posted On: 20 NOV 2018 4:59PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh released a book titled ‘Radio Kashmir – In Times of Peace & War’ written by Dr Rajesh Bhat, here today.


    Dr Jitendra Singh congratulated the author of the book and appreciated his efforts for writing a book on Jammu and Kashmir after extensive and in-depth research. He said that the writer has wide experience of working in print and electronic, as well as private and government media. Dr Singh said that reporting of radio in Jammu and Kashmir has its own significance. He said the radio has evolved from a small set up to a level of influencing the lives of people in remote areas. The Minister added that a 10KW transmitter of All India Radio at Patnitop in Ramban District of J&K was inaugurated recently, that will provide services to people living in a radius of around 60 km (aerial) in various districts and also said that a radio station at Udhampur would be commissioned soon.


    Speaking about the youth of J&K, the Minister said that many students from the state, supported by ‘Kashmir Super 30’ Project, have qualified for the JEE (Main & Advance) exam in recent years. He added that every year youth from Jammu and Kashmir are gaining top positions in Civil Services Exams, which shows that youth of J&K are hard working and aspiring for a bright future. The youth are now well-connected with the world with the increasing reach of internet, he added.


    The book titled ‘Radio Kashmir – In Times of Peace & War’ has emanated from an extensive and intensive research by the author on the significant role played by the media in safeguarding the strategic interest of the Government and the masses by addressing the core issues concerning the welfare and security of a nation. Ever since its inception in 1947, the author traces the assiduous role played by Radio Kashmir in weaving a cohesive social and cultural fabric. It depicts unique distinction earned by Radio Kashmir by serving people and the nation, in this region, fostering and strengthening democratic institutions in the State.


    The author Dr Rajesh Bhat is currently posted in the Policy Division of Directorate General, All India Radio, New Delhi. Dr Bhat has penned more than 250 academic research papers and articles.


    The DG, AIR Shri F. Sheheryar and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion.


    *******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553300) Visitor Counter : 787