      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Manoj Sinha inaugurates the All India Heads of Police Communication Conference
      Posted On: 19 NOV 2018 2:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Communications (I/C) and Railways, Shri Manoj Sinha inaugurated the All India Heads of Police Communication Conference on ‘Modernization of Police Communication and Challenges thereof’ here today . Speaking on the occasion, Shri Manoj Sinha said he is glad to be present among Senior Police Officers of the country and congratulated the Directorate of Coordination Police Wireless (DCPW) for organizing this Conference. He also appreciated that DCPW as a nodal agency for Police Communications is shouldering responsibility of bringing the Communication facilities to Police operations in a most effective manner, apart from various coordinated activities. The Minister also said that he is glad to know that DCPW is manning a Nationwide Communication network connecting all States, Union Territories and the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) as an additional support to all these Organizations.


    Shri Anand Swaroop, Director, DCPW, while welcoming the Minister, also addressed the delegates and the guests and thanked their presence in the Conference.


    The theme of the two-day conference is “Modernization of Police Communication and Challenges thereof”. The purpose of the Conference is to bring all stakeholders together on one platform to address outstanding issues, share best practices, address all domains of Communication and encourage Innovation and Modernisation in the field of Communication. It also encourages Business concerns to offer their solutions to the challenges of Communication in India. It also provides platform for the showcase of ‘Make In India’ and Startups to exhibit their expertise and share experiences with stakeholders to hone their skills.


    Shri Santosh Gangwar, Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of Labour and Employment will address the delegates in the valedictory function tomorrow. Besides, Trophy/Awards will also be presented in different categories of excellence for Imparting Training in the field of Communication, Implementing Innovation Solution, Crypto methods for Encryption & Performing State in implementing modern Technology in Police Communication Network.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553135) Visitor Counter : 427
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi