      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      ‘HAUSLA-2018’ inaugurated in the Capital, today
      
      More than 600 Children from CCIs across the country are taking part in the National Festival for Children

      Posted On: 26 NOV 2018 5:49PM by PIB Delhi

    The National Festival for Children of Child Care Institutions (CCIs)- “Hausla 2018” of the Ministry of Women and Child Development (MWCD) was inaugurated by the Secretary, Shri Rakesh Srivastava, today in New Delhi. The inter-Child Care Institution festival is witnessing participation of more than 600 Children drawn from CCIs from 18 states in the various events like painting competition, athletics meet, football, chess competition and speech writing as part of the Festival.


    Speaking at the 4 dayEvent, from 26 to 29 th November 2018,Secretary MWCD said that the idea behind the entire event is to provide a national platform for the children from CCIs across India to showcase their talent, to make them realise the hidden talent they possess and to help take it forward in their life. He said that this event would instil confidence in them to achieve greater heights in life. He also resolved to make the event like Hausla even stronger. He also said that the event shall inspire children of Child Care Institutions so that they can reach the National Stage for expressing their capabilities. The theme for the event is “Child Safety”.


    Children will be participating in various events like Debate, painting competition, athletics meet, football, chess competition and Safe Neighborhood Day. CIF and NIPCCD will be assisting the Ministry in organizing the events.


    The details of the proposed events are as follows:­

     1. Painting Competition on 26th November 2018: The creative talent in children is infinite and amazing, so much so that even the entire universe may seem like a small canvas to them. A creative activity like painting also helps in the development of the brain of a child. Expressing themselves through painting allows children to take part in an activity that is fun and fulfilling. It encourages them to look at situations with an open & creative mind. With this background in consideration, a painting competition is being organized by the Ministry of Women and Child Development on 26 th November, 2018 for children from all the Child Care Institutions across the country at NIPCCD. The paintings will be judged by a panel of three judges.

     1. Debate Competition on 26th November,2018: In today’s competitive space where excellence is a cliché, it is wise to make children aware as well as ready for the outer world. Perhaps, there are ways in which children compete and succeed. But individual expression has become very limited. Today’s children are largely engrossed in technology, leaving behind the real interaction. This is why it is necessary to encourage children into participating in activities like debates which shall have a long-term impression on a child’s self-expression. In this regard, a debate competition is being organized by the Ministry of Women and Child Development on 26th November, 2018 at NIPCCD. The children shall be judged by a panel of three judges.


    3. Athletics Meet, Chess Competition and Football Matches on 28-29 November 2018: Through play, children explore, invent and create. They also develop social skills, learn to express their emotions, and gain confidence about their own capabilities. The Ministry is organizing athletics meet (100 meters race, 200 m race, 100 x 4 meter relay race, long jump, high jump), chess competition and football matches for boys and girls from CCIs. The events will be organized at JawaharLal Nehru Stadium, New Delhi.


    To encourage children, prominent sportsperson might also be invited on 28 th November 2018 (morning) to inaugurate sports meet along with Secretary, WCD.


    4. Safe Neighborhood Project Day on 27th November 2018: It is not just the home environment that influences a child; the neighborhood in which he/she lives does too. A close-knit neighborhood can provide a sense of belonging, safety, and support. Feeling safe in the neighborhood is important for mental health and overall well-being and is linked to lower rates of mental illness, greater social interaction, and neighborhood trust. This activity is aimed to empower and inspire children to voice their opinions on what they perceive as Safety in a Neighborhood. The children will make models, do role-play, theatre, skit, sing, dance etc. on the subject. The children shall be judged by a panel of judges from MWCD.


    The Concluding Ceremony on 29th November 2018: The four-day long celebration will culminate through the concluding ceremony which will be organized on 29 th November (evening) at Siri Fort Auditorium, HauzKhas, New Delhi. The event will include a cultural programme by the children of CCIs, presentation of Best State Team Award based on performance during Hausla 2018 and Prize distribution to all winners of each individual event by Hon’ble Minister, WCD.


    ********


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553901) Visitor Counter : 2170
    
    
    
    
    

1.