      Ministry of Defence

      DGBR Reviews Progress of Critical Roads in Border Areas
      Posted On: 21 NOV 2018 3:28PM by PIB Delhi


    Director General Border Roads (DGBR) Lt Gen Harpal Singh, reviewed the progress of works of operationally critical roads in the Area of Responsibility of Project Arunank from November 20 to 21, 2018.


    The DGBR carried out inspection of Road TCC - Taksing & TCC-Bidak. The General officer was accompanied by CE (P) Arunank Brig RS Rawal during the inspection of sector. While expressing general satisfaction towards the works, the DG stressed that the quality of work should be of highest standard and at the same time PDC should be adhered to at all costs.


    The DGBR travelled by road from Taksing to Gelensiniak-Bidak and arrived at Limeking. Enroute the General officer inspected the ongoing road construction and took stock of plan of Bailey Bridges on various Nallahs and rivers for fair weather connectivity to Taksing and Bidak. Lt Gen Harpal Singh was convinced about the difficulty of terrain, unpredictable weather and the constraints of local resources in the region which posed huge challenge to BRO in timely completion of the roads. DG met the BRO personnel and CPLs at various work sites, complimented and exhorted them to keep pushing forward so that connectivity on these roads could be established.


    Lt Gen Harpal Singh carried out the inspection of Hapoli- Sarli-Huri Road on 21 November, 2018. DG expressed his satisfaction at the pace of progress and directed that the PDC for connectivity should be met at all costs. He complimented them for their dedication in working in extremely remote area with tough terrain conditions and persistent inclement weather. He exhorted them to continue the good work and ensure timely completion of the task with highest quality.


    The General officer called on the Governor and Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh and apprised about the status of road works in the state. The interaction between the BRO officials and Arunachal State dignitaries will surely pave the way for a harmonious and balanced roadwork progress in the State. The visit will go a long way in timely achievement of targets with highest quality by BRO.


    AA/Nampi/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553365) Visitor Counter : 789