      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Shri Hemant G. Contractor, Chairman, PFRDA delivers 37th CVC Lecture
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2018 7:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Hemant G. Contractor, Chairman, Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) delivered the 37 th lecture of the “Lecture Series” organized by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) here today. He spoke on the topic “Pensions and Social Security”.


    He differentiated between social security, social assistance and social insurance as concepts and discussed the concept of social protection as a broad idea, encompassing social security and voluntary welfare measures.


    The history of social security schemes in the context of the emergence of the modern nation state was highlighted. Further, he listed out various progressive social security laws of the Indian state and the related schemes launched under these laws. The unique need for social security in India, stemming from the increase in longevity as a result of the welfare state and the gradual breakdown of the joint family system was explained during the lecture.


    The speaker explained many aspects of the National Pension Scheme (NPS), the role of PFRDA in regulating the pensions and social security schemes and spoke of the Atal Pension Yojana in the context of the opening of Jan Dhan Accounts and the implementation of the Direct Benefits Transfer (DBT) scheme by the government.


    Full time and part time Chief Vigilance Officers (CVOs) based in Delhi/NCR attended the lecture along with Chairman-Cum-Managing Directors (CMDs), Board of Directors and Managers of Public Sector Enterprises as well as officers of the vigilance administration. The lecture may be viewed online as it was webcast live through National Informatics Centre (NIC). The web page link is available on www.cvc.nic.in .


    *******


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553922) Visitor Counter : 382
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi