      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      The problem is we have too many good movies: Consul General of Israel in Mumbai, Ya’akov Finkelstein
      
      There are many similarities between Indian and Israeli Cinema and both countries need to explore their own cinemas deeper: Dan Wolman, IFFI 2018 Lifetime Achievement Awardee
      
      Though I sometimes made movies to earn a living, I am a supporter of fringe cinema: Dan Wolman
      Posted On: 21 NOV 2018 9:07PM by PIB Delhi


    “There are lot of similarities in Indian and Israeli cinema so far as diversities are concerned, and both countries need to explore their own cinemas deeper said Dan Wolman in a Press conference at the 49 th edition of IFFI, Goa on November 21, 2018. Dan Wolman was presented Lifetime Achievement Award at IFFI in Goa this year. Calling himself a supporter of fringe cinema, Wolman said though he sometimes made movies to earn a living, his desire has always been to make a movie on issues like ageing, prostitution, gay issues etc.


    Narrating an experience where he was interviewed by a person unaware of parallel cinema, Mr Wolman, who lost two-thirds of his family in holocaust said, he believes in portraying emotions in indirect and subtle ways.


    Replying to question about his interest in theatre Mr Wolman said theatre is an exciting and less expensive means to reach people and Israel with its 18 film schools has a great tradition of theatre.


    Wolman further said, Israeli society is characterised by presence of various ethnic and migrant groups which make film-making challenging. However diversity is our strength and it shows the talent that our film fraternity has, Wolman added.


    Bringing out the similarities between Indian and Israeli cinema, His Excellency, Consul General of Israel in Mumbai, Ya’akov Finkelstein said, India and Israel have seen tremendous growth in various fields including film sector and ties between the film industries of both countries will scale further heights. Talking about Indian production houses Like Dharma Production shooting at Tel Aviv beaches, he said Israel and India have vast business opportunities in the film sector. Prime Minister of Israel wants films from both countries to fortify the century long bonds among people of Israel and India.


    In the Country Focus Section, IFFI will screen 10 movies from Israel which will showcase landscape, history and social issues faced by the country. Inviting Indians to Israel to witness its beauty and explore its huge shooting potential, the Consul General said, he is proud of democracies like India and Israel where concerns of the people have to be kept in mind while tackling socio-economic issues.


    “The Other story” is a movie about two rebellious young women and I can relate to the story myself, said Isareli Producer David Silber while speaking about his movie. I switched from the career of museum curator to become a film producer and my aim is not to just give entertainment but also food for thought to my audiences, Mr Silber said.


    ***


    ED/MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553385) Visitor Counter : 381
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi