      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      DAIC and JNU sign MoU to facilitate & enhance Research Activities & Policy Formulation aimed at Socio-Economic Transformation & Sustainable Development
      Posted On: 30 NOV 2018 4:10PM by PIB Delhi


    Dr Ambedkar International Centre (DAIC), 15 Janpath, New Delhi and Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) here today to facilitate and enhance research activities and policy formulation aimed at Socio-economic Transformation and Sustainable Development. The MoU was signed by Prof. M. Jagadesh Kumar, Vice Chancellor of JNU and Shri Atul Dev Sarmah, Director of DAIC. The signing ceremony was witnessed by Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Union Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment, Ms. Nilam Sawhney, Secretary, M/o SJ&E, Shri B.L. Meena, Joint Secretary, M/o SJ&E, Prof. Satish Chandra Garkoti, Rector II, JNU and the officials of DAIC and JNU.


    DAIC, inaugurated by the Prime Minister, is a centrally located state-of-the-art Centre for quality research in socio-economic transformation and it has been envisaged as a think-tank for preparing policy briefs. JNU with a status of the ‘University of Excellence’ given by the UGC is a world-renowned centre for teaching and research, having collaborations and MoUs with universities across the world in research projects, conferences, and publications.


    The MoU will facilitate and enhance research activities and policy formulation aimed at Socio-economic Transformation and Sustainable Development. The two organizations resolved to cooperate within the scope of their mandates and sphere of competences to work for these issues. The Parties recognized the benefits to be derived from increased collaboration, cooperation and interaction for the further promotion and understanding of high performance in research training and organizing various programmes including conferences, seminars, symposia and lecture series.


    The MoU aims to define the areas for fundamental, academic research in which both the Parties desire to work together in future for their mutual benefit to foster a collaborative framework between DAIC and JNU in the field with a view to benefiting from each other’s initiatives and working procedures and to support collaboration among the researchers associated with both the Parties.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/MoSJ&E/30.11.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554314) Visitor Counter : 546
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil