      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      NBCFDC organises Quiz & Cultural Programme for Children from slum areas to celebrate 150th year of Mahatama Gandhi’s Birth Anniversary
      Posted On: 27 NOV 2018 5:08PM by PIB Delhi


    National Backward Class Finance Development Corporation (NBCFDC), a public sector undertaking under Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment organized a “Quiz and Cultural Programme” comprising various i nnovative and fun-filled activities here today to raise children’s self-esteem and promote healthy behavior specially amongst street and homeless children drawn from slum areas of Delhi NCR. As part of its CSR initiative, NBCFDC celebrated 150 th year of Mahatama Gandhi’s birth anniversary in collaboration with its partners namely Bal Umang Drishya Sanstha (BUDS, Delhi, National Gandhi Museum, Delhi and Mahavir International, Delhi.


    Winners of Drawing competitions and Quiz programmes were presented Awards and certificates by Smt. Upma Srivastava, Additional Secretary, M/o Social Justice and Empowerment in the presence of Shri B.L. Meena, Joint Secretary and Ms. T.C. A. Kalyani, JS&FA of the ministry.


    The key message of this programme was to engage with underprivileged children and support them to realize their aspirations; and to focus on their education, recreation, health, cultural, economic and social needs. The programme also involved Health Check-up, Drawing Competition and Quiz Programme


    The activities included cultural programme by street children, Drawing Competition on Swachta, street play on Beti Bachao – Beti Padhao and early child marriage, quiz on the life and work of Bapu and a free Medical Health and Dental Check-up Camp etc. Every participant was acknowledged with gifts, awards and warm clothes were also provided to keep up their spirits and energy levels. Some of the activities of Buds had also been organized/supported jointly by their allied NGOs namely, the Indian Child Abuse Neglect & Child Labor (ICANCL), the Indian Academy of Pediatricians, (IAP) Delhi, DMA. Under-privileged children face high levels of neglect, abuse and exploitation within their families and their communities. The ICANCL, IAP had for long felt the need to reach out to vulnerable children and their families; increase in their awareness, help in raising their self-esteem and provide support for their overall health and well-being.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/MoSJ&E/27.11.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554006) Visitor Counter : 496