      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      HAUSLA-2018 concludes on an inspiring note for children from CCIs, in the capital today
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2018 8:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The 4 Day carnival- HAUSLA-2018- for the children from Child Care Institutions (CCIs) by the Ministry of WCD concluded today, in the national Capital, in the august presence of Justice Deepak Gupta, Hon’ble Judge, Supreme Court of India and Ms. KalpanaSaroj, Padma Shri Awardee and entrepreneur.


    The National Festival for Children of CCIs witnessed participation of more than 600 Children drawn from CCIs from 18 states in the various events like painting competition, athletics meet, football, chess competition and speech writing as part of the Festival. The team from Orissa walked away with the Rolling Trophy with the Chhattisgarh team finishing close second.


    Addressing the gathering, Justice Deepak Gupta said that the children should fear nothing and believe in oneself and their ability. He also remarked that Hausla should be done even at regional levels in the coming years.


    Delivering an inspirational address, the Guest of Honour, Ms. KalpanaSaroj shared her personal story of ‘achievement against all odds’, leaving the children motivated and extending an affectionate standing ovation.


    Present at the event, Secretary MWCD, Shri Rakesh Srivastava said that the idea behind the entire event was to provide a national platform for the children from CCIs across India to showcase their talent, to make them realise the hidden talent they possess and to help take it forward in their life. He said that this event has instilled confidence in them to achieve greater heights in life. He also resolved to make the event like Hausla even stronger. Secretary alsosaid that he has requested sports authorities to explore and if possible provide them a higher platform to perform better and excel in sports.


    NB/PS


    ******


    

    
    (Release ID: 1554264) Visitor Counter : 733
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi