      Ministry of Power

      “8 States achieve 100% household electrification under Saubhagya; total 15 States now have 100 % household electrification”, announces the Power Minister
      
      “Nation expected to achieve 100% household electrification by 31st December, 2018” says the Minister
      
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2018 3:13PM by PIB Delhi


    “8 States have achieved 100% saturation in household electrification under Saubhagya namely Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Bihar, J&K, Mizoram, Sikkim, Telangana and West Bengal . Thus total 15 States in the countrynow have 100 % household electrification.” said Shri RK Singh, Union Minister of State (IC) for Power and Renewable Energy. Shri Singh was speaking to media after the ‘Review, Planning & Monitoring (RPM) Meeting with States and State Power Utilities’ here today.


    Saubhagya – ‘Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana’ was launched in September, 2017 with the objective to provide access to electricity to all the remaining households in the country.The Minister informed that as many as 2.1 crore connections have been released under Saubhagya so far.


    “Many more State like Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh etc. are left with small number of un-electrified households and expected to achieve saturation any time.” said the Minister adding that with the present pace of electrification, Nation is expected to achieve 100% saturation in the country by 31 st December, 2018.


    The Minister further said, “Achievement of 100% household electrification in the country would be a major milestone in the direction to achieve 24x7 power for all. The Government is committed to ensure 24x7 access to electricity for all by 31 st March 2019.”


    In order to ensure that no un-electrified household is left in the States which have already achieved 100% household electrification, they have been requested to take up campaign to publicise the achievement all across the areas, so that anyone left out for any reasons may avail electricity connection under Saubhagya.


    Award Scheme under Saubhagya:


    For creating healthy competition amongst various DISCOMs/Power Departments of States, an award scheme has been instituted with awards of more than Rs 300crore to be won by States/Discoms. The first DISCOM/Power Departments to complete 100% household electrification will be felicitated with cash award of Rs. 50 Lakh for the employees and Rs.100 crore grant to be spent for distribution infrastructure. For the purpose of award, States have been divided into 3 categories and award would be given in each of these categories.


    The States completing 100% household electrification by 31 st Dec. 2018 will also receive additional grant of 15% of the project cost (5% for special category States) sanctioned under Saubhagya.


    Benefits to the Citizen:


    Electricity in households has brought new light in their lives. Electrification has direct positive impact on the quality of all aspects of daily life, especially to the women and children.


    With deeper penetration of electricity network, significant improvement is expected in delivery of other essential services like education, health, communication etc. and thereby more opportunities for economic activities leading to employment generation, increase in income and poverty alleviation.


    *****


    RCJ/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554205) Visitor Counter : 3516
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Malayalam