      Ministry of Home Affairs

      BPR&D organizes the Anandswarup Gupta Memorial Lecture on “Inclusive Policing in the era of New Age Crimes”
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2018 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


    The Bureau of Police Research & Development organized the Anandswarup Gupta Memorial Lecture on “Inclusive Policing in the era of New Age Crimes” and 2nd National Conference of Heads of Investigating Agencies on “Capacity Building of Police Investigators in the Era of New Age Crimes” here today. The lecture was delivered by Shri. D R Kaarthikeyan, former Director, CBI.


    In his address Shri D. R. Kaarthikeyan stressed on capacity building of Indian Police Forces to handle the crime investigations effectively. He was of the view that technology needs to be introduced in Police Investigation procedures and improve the quality of evidence. He also stressed on the importance of understanding of the court procedure and to have regular interaction with prosecution and judicial officers. This would go a long way in improving conviction rates.


    Dr. Anandswarup Gupta was the founder Director of the Bureau of Police Research & Development which was set up in the year 1970. In 2003, the Bureau instituted the Dr. Anandswarup Gupta memorial lecture series.


    DG, BPR&D, Shri AP Maheshwari, in his welcome address stressed on conducting such conference on regular basis. The illustrious family members of the Dr. Anandswarup Gupta family were also present and were felicitated by the DG, BPR&D


    The BPR&D is also organising the 2 nd biennial National Conference of Investigating Agencies on 29-30 November at BPR&D Headquarters, New Delhi. The objective of the conference is to deliberate on various legal aspects, procedures and use of technology in investigation to improve its quality and secure effective prosecution.


    The heads of State Crime Branches and other state police investigation agencies like Economic Offence Wing (EOW), Special Task Force(STF) are participating along with Central Investigation Agencies like Central Bureau of Investigation(CBI) , National Investigation Agency (NIA), Enforcement Directorate (ED), Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU), Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB).


    This year, 9 business sessions are being organised in collaboration with NIA, NCB, ED, FIU, WCCB, Academia, Corporate Sector, and cyber and forensic experts along with practitioner police officers from States.


    *****


    BB/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554246) Visitor Counter : 599