      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister launches Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) for Himachal Pradesh
      
      Himachal Pradesh first state to launch pan-India single emergency number
      Posted On: 28 NOV 2018 4:46PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh launched Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) for Himachal Pradesh at Mandi today. Himachal Pradesh is the first state to launch pan-India single emergency number ‘112’ under ERSS.


    Addressing the gathering, Shri Rajnath Singh applauded the initiatives of Government of Himachal Pradesh under the able leadership of Chief Minister Shri Jai Ram Thakur for being the first State to launch the single emergency number 112 under ERSS project. He appealed residents of State of Himachal Pradesh to download ‘112 India’ mobile app available in App store of Google & Apple. Citing the success of Himachal Pradesh in rolling out the ERSS project, he requested other States and Union Territories to make all out efforts to commence rollout of their ERSS project.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Jai Ram Thakur expressed his gratitude to the Union Home Minister for inaugurating the 112-single emergency number, 112 India mobile app and ERSS website and for providing financial assistance of Rs. 4.71 Crore for the project. He further thanked Union Home Minister for approving a dedicated NDRF Battalion for the State of Himachal Pradesh, Rs. 4.2 Crore for modernization of State Police force under MPF scheme and for approving enhancement of monthly salary of SPOs in district of Chamba and Lahaul Spiti from Rs. 4,000/- to Rs. 6,000/-.


    This event marks the beginning of commencement of a single number based 112 emergency services which will connect to Police, Fire, Health and other helplines through an Emergency Response Centre in the State. This service obviates the need for citizens to remember multiple helpline numbers.


    Under this project, one Emergency Response Centre (ERC) has been established in Shimla along with 12 District Command Centers (DCCs) covering entire State. Emergency Response Centre has been integrated with Police (100), Fire (101), Health (108) and Women helpline (1090) Services to provide emergency services via single emergency number - 112. The service also includes a ‘112 India’ mobile app integrated with Panic Button of smartphones and ERSS State website for ease of citizen in availing immediate assistance. To increase the effectiveness of Emergency Response, the ERC has also been integrated with Location Based Services provided by Telecom Service Providers.


    To ensure safety of women, a SHOUT feature has been introduced in ‘112 India’ mobile app to seek immediate assistance from registered volunteers in the vicinity apart from the immediate assistance from Emergency Response Centre. The SHOUT feature is exclusively available to women.


    The ‘112 India’ mobile app will be subsequently rolled out in all States & Union Territories to help people across the country access the unified emergency services. Central Government has allocated ₹321.69 Crore under Nirbhaya Fund for implementation of ERSS project across the country.


    *******


    BB/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554117) Visitor Counter : 969
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi