      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Shri Pradhan says that the Government has brought about paradigm shift in the healthcare sector
      Posted On: 30 NOV 2018 12:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship & Petroleum and Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan has said that the Government has brought about a paradigm shift in the national healthcare. Addressing the 15 th Health Summit organized by CII here today, he said that an entrepreneurial model is being created by tapping the talent, energy and resources outside the Government system to provide affordable, accessible and sustainable healthcare. The Minister said that Ayushman Bharat, popularly known as Modicare, is the biggest health care system being implemented by the State which will provide health facilities to almost half the country’s population. He said that an ecosystem is being created to provide for more doctors, para-medicos, health infrastructure, etc. He said that this has given big boost to the health industry, as India is also becoming a favourite destination for overseas patients, particularly from Africa, Asia and Latin America, and the sector is becoming a service exporter. Sh Pradhan said that there have been formal agreements with Japan and UAE for providing skilled manpower in the healthcare sector, as Indian workforce has the qualities of sensitivity, compassion and responsibility.


    The Minister said that that Health Care Council, set up by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, is aggressively pushing to provide trained manpower. The Government has fulfilled the demand for setting up a statutory body for Allied and Other healthcare services. Sh Pradhan said that Indian pharmaceutical industry is already a global player and is in a big league. He said that India can be alaboratory for affordable healthcare industry. He called upon all the stakeholders to contribute in the efforts.


    ******


    YB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554281) Visitor Counter : 490
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Tamil