      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Successful completion of Swachhta Pakhwada of Ministry in Civil Aviation
      
      Various intiative taken during this fortnight
      
      Government of IndiaPawan Hans Ltd, Airports Authority of India and Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi awarded the 3 best performing organizations
      
      Posted On: 30 NOV 2018 7:01PM by PIB Delhi


    As a part of the Swachhta Pakhwada of Ministry of Civil Aviation for the year 2018, the 15 day cleanliness drive, has successfully been observed in M/o Civil Aviation and all of its organizations from 01 st November 2018 to 15 th November 2018.


    Shri Rajiv Nayan Choubey, Secretary (Civil Aviation) inaugurated the Swachhta Pakhwada campaign in MoCA on 01 st November 2018 by administering ‘Swachhta Pledge” to all the employees. Speaking on the occasion, Shri Choubey highlighted the importance of cleanliness by citing the example of the life of Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi and requested all the employees to ensure cleanliness around their workstations.


    Briefing the media, Smt. Usha Padhee, Joint Secretary, MoCA, said that during this Pakhwada, the Ministry and its attached offices organized various activities related to cleanliness awareness such as Shramdan by staff, short play, tree/sapling plantation, swachhta lecture by Shri Bezwada Wilson (M agsaysay award 2016 winner), visit of Secretary, M/o Drinking Water & Sanitation to paper recycling unit of Airport Authority of India, special rally for awareness on hygiene, drawing / painting competition etc. with an objective of dissemination of the message of Swachh Bharat widely and to connect the local masses in the surrounding areas to this campaign.


    Based on the swachhta related activities carried out by all the organizations of MoCA, Shri Suresh Prabhu, Minister of Civil Aviation, declared and awarded Pawan Hans Ltd (PHL), Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi (IGRUA) as the 3 best performing organizations under MoCA during this Swachhta Pakhwada


    Some of the major activities undertaken during Swachhta Pakhwada were:-

     1. Teams of MoCA and DGCA performed short plays on Swachhta centric theme.
     2. Drawing/Poetry/Poster Making/Essay/Speech Competitions inviting innovative ideas for Swachhta amongst employees. Such competitions were also organized by AAI and PHL for students in identified government schools for the awareness of cleanliness.
     3. Paper recycling unit of AAI planned to share expertise of recycling paper with other agencies/Ministries/PSUs. NTPC has shown interest in starting their own recycling unit.
     4. PHL adopted a road in front of their Corporate Office along with other owners / occupants on cost sharing basis with focus on regular cleaning, proper drain management in association with Noida Authority.
     5. AAI invited Shri Bezwada Wilson for a lecture and workshop on cleanliness. AAI also conducted Medical awareness programme.
     6. In IGRUA, the bio-degradable solid waste materials collected from Mess, Kitchen and from residential area were processed in a Vermiculture Plant and the manure produced used in various gardens of the Akademi.
     7. IGRUA invited students of nearby schools and Gram Pradhans of nearby villages for Exhibition of Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) System in IGRUA in two sessions of two hours each.
     8. Cleanliness drive in nearby residential colonies.

    ***


    RJ/KGS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1554346) Visitor Counter : 686
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

8.