      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Experts Exchange ideas on Ganga Museum
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2018 4:56PM by PIB Delhi


    National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) is planning to set up a Ganga Exhibition and a Ganga Museum as an instrument for public outreach, depicting the river’s history and mythology, its importance for the livelihood of a huge population, as well as efforts for Ganga Rejuvenation.


    Expert from India and the European Union are meeting for two days on 29 th & 30 th November, 2018 to hold an International Workshop on “Developing a Ganga Museum Concept: Exchanging Experiences and Ideas between India and Europe” along with GIZ India as a part of Indo German Development Co-operation to exchange ideas and experiences regarding various aspects of the proposed museum, knowledge centre and exhibition.


    Delivering the keynote address, Secretary Ministry of Water Resources River Developing and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri UP Singh said that the Ganga Museum should reflect all the aspects of the river like it’s mythological and spiritual significance, efforts to rejuvenate the river, economic activities going on along its banks and its biodiversity and aquatic life including fishes, turtles, dolphins etc. He hoped that ideas of international experts will enrich the concept of Ganga Museum.


    Director General, NMCG Shri R.R.Mishra said that NMCG has been working towards the possibility for the establishment of a Ganga Museum. Identification of an appropriate location will be the essence of the project. People are connected with Ganga in different ways as pilgrims, as tourists and as beneficiaries of economic activities around it. Everybody should feel connected with the river. He said the Ganga Museum should be designed in such a way as to increase the connect and motivation to keep the river clean as a continuous process.


    About 35 international and Indian museum experts as well representatives of Ministries of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Art, Culture and Youth and Wildlife Institute of India are participating in the workshop. The ideas thrown up in the workshop will be compiled in a manual that will be used as a basis to further implement the necessary steps to set up a Ganga Museum and Exhibition.


    ***


    NP/SKP/JK/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554222) Visitor Counter : 647
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali