      Ministry of Defence

      Annual Chief Engineers’ Conference of Border Road Organisation
      Posted On: 30 NOV 2018 6:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Annual Chief Engineers Conference of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) was heldhere from November 28-30, 2018. Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr Subhash Bhamre addressed the conference today. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Bhamre said, “S ecurity needs of the country demand faster construction of these roads. I am aware that BRO has certain challenges due to terrain and climate and other factors, but I am sure that BRO shall overcome all challenges and enhance the pace of construction as well as adopt newer technologies and procedures.”


    He mentioned that the Ministry has delegated enhanced financial and administrative powers to BRO, going upto Task Force Commander level. This would have made a positive impact on the pace of progress and would have gone a long way in improving the efficiency of the Organisation. He also informed that two jobs for construction of Sela Tunnel and part of Balipara-Charduar-Tawang road in Arunachal Pradesh have been sanctioned in Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) mode. This brings greater responsibility on BRO to complete the work with quality in assigned time frame.


    Dr Bhamreurged all stakeholders to put in their best for achieving the goals set for the Organization, which ultimately shall facilitate good network of roads in border areas to fulfil the strategic needs of the country as well as to meet the requirements for socio economic development of the region as a whole.He appreciated the efforts being made by BRO for completion of pending Indo China Border Roads and the Rohtang tunnel project in the time frame committed by the Organization. No slippages will be permitted in these critical timelines.


    The event commenced with a synergy conference with Controller General Defence Accounts (CGDA). The conference provided an excellent forum for discussion on critical issues including an assessment of current performance for chalking out the future course of action.


    Some important achievements of the organisation during the year: construction of highest motorable road between Chisumle-Demchok in Ladakh region on Umling La Top (19,300 feet above MSL), construction of 578 metre Theng Tunnel on Gangtok – Chungthang road in Sikkim, connectivity of Damchu-Chukha road in Bhutan, connectivity of TCC-Taksing in Arunachal, connectivity of Manali – Padam axis and construction of strategically important 290 feet long bridge at Hussainiwala. Work on the Rohtang Tunnel is proceeding at a fast pace. During the early snowfall in Manali BRO had rescued many stranded tourists and locals. Another big achievement is the apparent commencing of the work on the Sela Tunnel.


    Dr Bhamre also released BRO Technical Magazine “OonchiSadakein”. The conference also witnessed the presentation of Best Task Force and Best Road Trophy by the Minister.The Director General, Addl Dir Gens, Senior officials of Defence Accounts Services and Chief Engineers of all Projects attended the three-day long conference.


    *****


    AA/Nampi/DK/Rajib/HS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1554341) Visitor Counter : 573