      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      PCPIRs in India register good progress in attracting Investments for Industrial Development and generating Employment: Shri Mansukh Mandaviya
      
      Rs. 1.83 lakh crores invested and more than 3 lakh people employed so far
      
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2018 2:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State for Chemicals & Fertilizers, Road Transport & Highways, Shipping, Shri Mansukh L. Mandaviya informed in a statement here today that following Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘Make in India’, the Department of Chemicals & Petrochemicals, under Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers has registered good progress by facilitating increased investments in Petroleum, Chemicals and Petrochemical Investment Regions (PCPIRs) for boosting industrial development and employment generation.


    Shri Mandaviya informed that under the cluster-based development model, the department has identified four PCPIRs - in Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Tamil Nadu – that are in advanced stages of implementation. Upon completion, these PCPIRs will have an estimated investment of approximately Rs. 8 lakh crores and are expected to generate employment for approximately 40 lakh people. So far, around Rs. 1,83,000 crores have been invested in these PCPIRs and more than 3 lakh people have been employed, the Minister added.


    Quoting the successful implementation of PCPIR in Gujarat, Shri Mandaviya said ONGC Petro Additions Ltd (OPaL) has been established as the anchor unit at Dahej. 170 industrial units are already functional, while over 830 units are in different stages of implementation at PCPIR Dahej and so far Rs. 86,000 crores have been invested and employment has been generated for a total of 1,32,000 persons, the Minister informed.


    Shri Mandaviya’s video byte may be accessed on PIB India’s YouTube page, on the link below:


    https://youtu.be/YxM0K8PavDw


    *****


    KSP/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554193) Visitor Counter : 727
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Gujarati , Tamil