      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Hardeep Puri to hold comprehensive review of the progress of Urban Missions in N-E States in Agartala
      Posted On: 28 NOV 2018 5:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State(I/C) Housing & Urban Affairs will be reviewing the progress of Urban Missions in the eight States of North-Eastern region on 1st Dec 2018. A day prior to that, Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary of the Ministry and National Mission Directors of Urban Missions will be holding review meetings with senior officials of these states in respect of various Missions of the Housing Ministry which have been launched by the central government since 2014.


    Implementation of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban), Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Smart City Mission, all launched on June 25, 2015 and Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) launched on October 2, 2014 besides the continuing 10% Lump Sum Scheme for North-East and North-Eastern Region Urban Development Programme(NERUDP) and DAY-NULM besides progress of RERA will be reviewed over two days.


    Under PMAY (Urban), Ministry of HUA has approved construction of 2,30,000 affordable houses for urban poor in the eight States of N-E during the last about 4 years. Under PMAY(Urban), central government provides an assistance in the range of Rs.1.00 lakh to Rs.2.67 lakh to each beneficiary under different verticals.


    Twelve towns of N-E States have been included in the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation for Urban Transformation (AMRUT) for providing water taps to all urban households besides improving water supply to the normative level of 135 litres per capita per day, expanding sewerage and drainage networks, promoting non-motorized transport and development of open spaces in mission cities. Under AMRUT, Ministry of Urban Development supports 90% of the project costs in N-E States as against only one third to half of the project costs in other States. N-E towns included in AMRUT are: Arunachal Pradesh: Itanagar; Assam: Guwahati, Dibrugarh, Naogaon and Silchar; Manipur: Imphal; Meghalaya:Shillong; Mizoram: Aizawl; Nagaland: Dimapur and Kohima; Sikkim: Gangtok; Tripura: Agartala.


    Manipur, Mizoram and Sikkim have achieved ODF status. 98 towns in NE have become Open Defecation Free(ODF), and 47,880 Individual Household toilets and 2310 Community & Public toilets have been constructed under the Mission. Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim have achieved 100% Door to Door collection of garbage. 80% of the wards in Mizoram have adopted this with 25% also switching to segregation at source. Nagaland has declared all its ULBs ODF.


    Under DAY-NULM 13332 Self Help Groups(SHGs) have been formed and 48,827 candidates imparted training. Mizoram has done well in provision of shelters for homeless.


    RJ/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554122) Visitor Counter : 403