      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      SCIENTIST – FARMER INTERFACE MEETING
      Posted On: 15 MAR 2017 5:20PM by PIB Bengaluru


    SCIENTIST – FARMER INTERFACE MEETING


    Bengaluru, March 15, 2017


    Under the ‘Farmer FIRST Program’ sponsored by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi, the National Institute of Animal Nutrition and Physiology (NIANP), Bengaluru has organized a ‘Scientist-Farmer Interface’ a first of its kind to develop forward and backward linkages among farmers and scientists.


    In its inaugural function, Dr.S.Ayyappan, Professor, NABARD Chair and former Director General, ICAR has called upon the farmers to take the scientists to villages to find out solutions for the problems in various aspects. He stressed the need for the scientists to visit villages and organize programmes for formers and provide training to them. Further, he added that based on the problems of farmers, the scientists must focus to develop new technology by way of research in finding solutions. Farmers should develop their mindset that ‘My village – My honour’, he added. He also spoke at length about various aspects such as terrace farming, waste management, dairy farming and agriculture in urban areas. Pointing out Skill India, Dr.Ayyappan informed the farmers that skill in hand itself is the main reason for skill development. He also praised the Institute for its research both at national and international level.


    Speaking on the occasion, Prof. V.Veerabhadraiah, Former Director of Extension, UAS, Bengaluru explained the comforts and discomforts of farmers in the area of integrated agriculture, animal rearing, fodder, etc., in general and in the current situation of drought in the entire state in particular. Stating that farmer is the first in agriculture, he said they must get all the benefits of new technologies of the research done by the scientists. He felt the need of creating jobs to the farmers under MGNREGA in their agricultural lands itself to ease the burden on farmers.


    Earlier speaking on the occasion, Dr.Raghavendra Bhatta, Director, ICAR-NIANP stressed on the feed block technology, silage production, azolla cultivation and acroponics technologies in the experimental livestock unit of the Institute. He appealed to farmers to put forth their problems in the fields of dairy calf management, diseases affecting cattle, ration balancing tools for dairy animals, weather complications, etc., and to interact with the scientists to get solutions. This enables to get their income double, as it is the desire of the Prime Minister to make the income of the farmers get doubled, he added.


    Info Book on Technology Modules: Farmer First Project brought out by the ICAR-NIANP was released on the occasion besides releasing phamplets/folders containing the useful information to the farmers.


    *****


    adg/kv 16-30 Hrs. 15-03-2017

    

    
    (Release ID: 1484434) Visitor Counter : 73