      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Pradhan Mantri Ujwala Yojana Launched in Telangana
      Posted On: 14 APR 2018 8:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) was launched in the state of Telangana on the birth anniversary of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, at Suryapetby by the Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship Dharmendra Pradhan, in the presence of Shri Bandaru Dattatru, MP . PMUY LPG connections were distributed to the BPL Women beneficiaries by the dignitaries on the stage.


    PMUY has been a revolutionary initiative that has transformed the lives of more than 3.57 crore households spanning across the length and breadth of the country. The initiative is in line with Governments aim to eradicate energy poverty, thereby promoting economic empowerment.


    Addressing the gathering Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Dharmendra Pradhan said that the scheme has been impacting the lives of women from BPL families in a major way by reducing the drudgery of cooking with polluting fuels and will go a long way in reducing indoor pollution. He said that the main mantra of PMUY is “Mahilaon Ko Mila Samman, Swachh Indhan Behtar Jeevan”. He said in order to educate the BPL families, Government is organizing ‘Gram Swaraj Abhiyaan’ from 14 th April – 5 th May across the country showcasing 7 schemes of the central government. He also announced that on 20 th April 2018, ‘Ujjwala Diwas’ will be celebrated by way of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Panchayats at 15000 locations in which large number of PMUY LPG connections will be distributed. LPG Panchayats will focus on the key themes of Health, Economic cost, Safety, Environment and Empowerment. He conveyed that 20 Lakh connections will be distributed in the state of Telangana and for that the total distributorship will be raised from 700 to 1000 in the State in future.


    The overwhelming response to the PMUY initiative and its efficient implementation & monitoring have led the Government to revise the initial target of releasing 5 crore connections to 8 crore by the year 2020.To achieve this enhanced target, additional categories have been included under extended Ujjwala scheme viz. SC, ST, Most BC, Antyodaya Anna Yojana etc.


    *****


    PP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529161) Visitor Counter : 1268
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil