      PIB Headquarters

      INTERNATIONAL YOUTH CONTEST OF SOCIAL ANTI-CORRUPTION ADVERTISING
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2019 5:13PM by PIB Chennai


    During the BRICS Anti-corruption Working Group meeting held in January 2019 at Tokyo, the Russian Federation suggested to organize Anti-corruption poster and video competition with the participation of all BRICS countries.


    Accordingly, the event is being organized in India by the Department of Personnel & Training in association with the Central Vigilance Commission and Ministry of External Affairs on the contest theme ``Together Against Corruption’’ through the active involvement of Chief Vigilance Officers as well as the Vigilance Study Circles(VSC).


    The Competition/Contest rules are available in the link http://anticorruption.life/en .


    The contest is open to the nationals of the Interstate Anti-Corruption Council and the BRICS countries aged from 14 to 35 years. The contest will be held in two categories: ``The Best Poster’’ `` The Best Video’’.


    The goals of the contest are to encourage the younger generation to participate in corruption prevention, to develop and use social advertising against corruption, to foster interaction between the society and prosecution authorities and other public authorities in anti-corruption education of the population.


    To take part in the Contest, an applicant must prepare a poster and/or video on the topic ``Together against Corruption’’ in accordance with the goals and objectives of the Contest and must register a personal account on the official Contest website http://anticorruption.life/en , and complete the registration and other formalities specified.


    The International Jury for selecting the 3 Top/Prize winners of Contest would comprise of one representative from each participating country who will vote online. The Top/Prize winners will be felicitated in an award ceremony to be held in Moscow on 09.12.2019. The travel/air expenses of the winners and accompanying persons shall be borne by the sending country. In the event of Indian entry declared winners, the DoPT shall bear the travel expenses of the winning participants and accompanying officials. The expenses for accommodation and meals of winners and accompanying persons during their stay in Moscow will be paid by the Organiser.


    Airports Authority of India, Southern Region with its administrative head as the Regional Executive Director is spreading the awareness about the contest by giving wide publicity through displaying banners, distributing pamphlets in the airports, Metro station, in schools, colleges, professional institutions identified in Chennai for the purpose, in all the airports of Southern Region, in schools, colleges, professional institutions identified by Airport Directors of Southern Region airports and through the AAI Integrity Clubs created in Chennai, Trichy, Mangalore, Calicut, Agatti, and Hyderabad.


    It Is stated in the Press Release issued by the Airports Authority of India.


    *******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578941) Visitor Counter : 64
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil