      PIB Headquarters

      PONDICHERRY UNIVERSITY SURGING AHEAD Outlook – ICARE India University Ranking 2019
      Posted On: 21 JUL 2019 2:14PM by PIB Chennai


    In the recently released Outlook – ICARE India University Ranking 2019, Pondicherry University improved its points significantly and scored 11th place among the Central Universities and 67 th place among the Universities and Institutions category with an overall score of 68.58 points. The University scored 81.2 for Students Faculty Ratio (SFR), 74.9 for Faculty with Ph.D. (FWP), 63.6 for Paper per Faculty (PPF), 70.4 for Citation per Paper (CPP) and 49.7 for Inclusiveness and Diversity (ID). This is a marked improvement compared to the past. This has been achieved by the University due to the constant guidance and support given by the leadership of Vice Chancellor Professor Gurmeet Singh encouraging the faculty and students community to perform their best and bring better academic results to place the university among one of the top most universities in India.


    The Outlook – ICARE India University Ranking evaluates the institutions based on five parameters such as Students Faculty Ratio (SFR), Faculty with Ph.D. (FWP) Paper per Faculty (PPF), Citation per Paper (CPP), Inclusiveness and Diversity (ID). Institutions are awarded overall rank based on the points scored and their key strengths in core parameters.


    Outlook – ICARE India University Ranking is one of the leading ranking frameworks in India apart from National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) released by Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India. Pondicherry University has been participating in many ranking frameworks and improving its performance over the years consistently. Besides the Outlook – ICARE, in the recent The Times Higher Education University Impact Rankings Pondicherry University was ranked in 101 – 200 in two categories namely (1) Gender Equality and (2) Climate Action among the world universities In the earlier Times Higher Education (THE) Emerging Economies University Rankings Pondicherry University was ranked 201-250 category. Similarly, in the recent NIRF ranking 2019, Pondicherry University jumped 14 spots than the previous year and was placed in 48 th place from the previous 59 th position. The University is looking to scale greater heights in the coming years with the visionary leadership of its Vice Chancellor Professor Gurmeet Singh and the dedicated contribution of Teachers, Officers and Staff to provide better academic environment to Research Scholars and Students.


    -----

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579667) Visitor Counter : 62
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil