      NITI Aayog

      Final Round of “Pitch to MOVE”, A Mobility Pitch competition for budding start-up
      Posted On: 05 SEP 2018 3:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The final round of Pitch to MOVE was held in Delhi on 4 th September 2018. Organized by NITI Aayog in collaboration with Invest India and Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), the final round featured 32 start ups panning across different fields of mobility, who pitched their ideas in front of a Jury of Industry experts and Venture Capitalists.


    Attending Pitch to MOVE, Dr. Rajiv Kumar, Vice Chairman NITI Aayog said, “It is very impressive to see such innovative ideas being presented by Indian Start-ups. Their contribution in the mobility domain is extremely valuable. We all need to work together to achieve our goal of shared, connected and clean mobility.”


    Two winners each from the ideation & growth stage start-ups were selected by the distinguished jury. In the growth stage start-up category, Mobycy, Dockless Bike Sharing App was selected as the winners. Flowerpot Mobility solutions who have developed a Peer-to-peer carpooling platform was selected as runners up. In the Ideation stage, Journee, An android based ticketing solution were the winners and TieTran Cycleloop, a solar powered E-bike mobility system were the runners up.


    “The young generation of entrepreneurs hold the potential to transform India's future with breakthrough innovations. NITI Aayog will always be supportive of their efforts”, said Mr. Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog.


    About Pitch to MOVE


    Pitch to MOVE aims to identify and incentivise the start-ups, which will help the Government realize its vision of Shared, Connected, Intermodal and Environment Friendly Mobility for India. The objective is to harness the latest disruption for generating employment and growth in our country. We look forward to working together with these start-ups.


    The main Summit is being organized by NITI Aayog on 7 and 8 Sep 2018 in New Delhi ( http://movesummit.in/ ) and is being inaugurated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India.


    ***


    AKT/KP/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1544972) Visitor Counter : 1550
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi