      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Activities/Events being organized in tribal areas by States during Poshan Maah reviewed by Secretary, MoTA
      Posted On: 05 SEP 2018 2:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Shri Deepak Khandekar reviewed the activities and celebrations of Poshan Maah (National Nutrtition Month) being organized by various States/UTs in their tribal areas. 23 States/UTs participated in the review meeting organized through video conferencing at the Hqrs of Ministry of Tribal Affairs in New Delhi today. The weekly activities schedules and the action plans prepared by the State Tribal Departments for the month of September (Poshan Maah) were discussed in detail at today’s review meeting.


    Addressing the participants, Secretary, MoTA expressed satisfaction at the events and activities being organized by the organizations/institutions of Ministry of Tribal Affairs at block, district and state levels. The Secretary urged the participants to organize gram sabhas in order to focus on the issue of nutrition at the grassroots level. The State Tribal departments should arrange activities on a convergence mode alongwith other participating stakeholders as well as organize special activities for tribals and tribal areas, the Secretary explained. He also instructed them to capture the activities properly by taking pictures, videos etc. and uploading them on a especially created dashboard on a daily basis. Shri Deepak Khandekar also asked the States to arrange media and publicity for the various events in order to bring into focus and lime light the special nutrition drive under poshan abhiyan in order to convert it into a Jan Andolan in the real sense.


    Representatives of various States highlighted the activities being organized by them during the month of September including tribal food festival; promotion of drumsticks by plantation in EMRs, Ashram schools, Government schools in tribal areas; posters on hand washing; sensitization of ground level functionaries; and growth monitoring plus anemia mapping among tribal children. The States are also organizing essay and painting competitions, health check up camps, seminars for parents of children, cooking competition, special gram sabhas, nutrition training to cooks of tribal schools among others.


    The month long National Nutrition Month is being observed across the country as a special drive under the Poshan Abhiyan Program. It is being steered by the Ministry of Women and Child Development in a convergence mode and the Ministry of Tribal Affairs is an important partner catering to the requriements of tribal populations. The Ministry of Tribal Affairs has provided and indicative schedule of activities to be organized by the States during the National Nutrition Month.


    ******


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544971) Visitor Counter : 580
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil , Malayalam