      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Training program by NDMA on Landslide Mitigation and DPR Preparation organized at IIT Mandi
      Posted On: 01 SEP 2018 3:52PM by PIB Delhi


    A five-day training programme on ‘Landslide Mitigation and Detailed Project Report (DPR) Preparation’ concluded at IIT-Mandi successfully at Himachal Pradesh, yesterday (August 31, 2018). Supported by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in collaboration with IIT-Mandi, the training programme aimed to train various stakeholders for better landslide mitigation and DPR preparation to reduce impact of landslides on human lives and properties.


    The programme brought together key groups, including geo-technical engineers, civil engineers, geologists, disaster managers, etc., which work towards developing, adopting, implementing and enforcing mitigation measures in their concerned States. Landslide experts Prof. Vikas Thakur, NTNU, Norway, Dr A. K. Naithani, NIRM Bangaluru, Dr. Deepak, Dr. Vaun and Dr. Uday, IIT Mandi and Dr. Ravinder Singh, NDMA, Delhi conducted the training programme in the pristine campus of IIT Mandi. Field visit of Katropi landslide was organized as a part of the training on 29 th August, 2018.


    Speaking during the valedictory session, Lt. Gen. N. C. Marwah (Retd.), Member, NDMA, underlined the need to focus on the preparedness and mitigation of landslides. He also emphasized upon the need for indigenous research and technologies to address the problem of our difficult terrain and provide low-cost solutions to meet local requirements.


    Earlier, inaugurating the training programme on August 27, 2018, Shri Rugved M. Thakur, Deputy Commissioner Mandi, Government of Himachal Pradesh, shared the inputs on the pre and the post disaster services to deal with landslides and other disasters in Mandi District. The importance of multi-disciplinary approach in the field of landslide studies was also highlighted. Participants were also briefed about the importance of landslide mitigation through preparation of DPRs in line with the NDMA template.


    Total 32 officials nominated from various landslide affected States, viz. Mizoram, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jammu & Kashmir and various departments such as Public Works Department (PWD), Directorate of Geology & Mineral Resources (DGM), State Disaster Management Authorities (SDMAs), Geological Survey of India (GSI) and others.


    Landslides affect at least 15 per cent of India's landmass and incur huge economic losses annually. Landslide mitigation involves awareness, education, preparedness, prediction and timely warning systems to minimise the adverse effects of a landslide. As a step forward, NDMA is collaborating with IIT-Mandi for a pilot project on “Development and Evaluation of Low-Cost Landslide Monitoring Solutions”.


    ***


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544730) Visitor Counter : 768