      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog’s MOVE Cyclathon draws massive participation, promotes clean mobility
      Posted On: 02 SEP 2018 4:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Hon’ble MoS Kiren Rijiju & Amitabh Kant, CEO NITI Aayog today flagged off MOVE Cyclathon, a cycle rally to promote cleaner, accessible modes of transport. The cyclathon was held in the run up to the MOVE: Global Mobility Summit on September 7, 8 in New Delhi, and saw a participation of over 500 enthusiastic cyclists.


    Speaking at the event, Shri Kiren Rijiju emphasised that Indian cities must be developed for cycling. “The Movelo Cyclathon, organized by NITI Aayog is spreading the message of clean mobility to the Indian public”, said the Minister.


    “We need to move people, not cars. Cycling is the way to go for a healthier life & a less polluting city”, the CEO emphasized as he exhorted the young people of India to spread the message of a shared, connected, and zero-emission mobility in the country.


    About ‘Mobility Week’


    ‘Mobility Week’ will see 17 events in 7 days—from 31 August to 6 September 2018. These events will facilitate interactions with various stakeholders across the mobility domain.


    Participants include global and Indian leaders from across the mobility sector such as OEMs, battery manufacturers, charging infrastructure providers, technology solution providers, representatives from the Indian government as well as foreign governments, various inter-governmental organizations, academia, and policy think tanks.


    About MOVE: Global Mobility Summit


    Steeply falling technology costs and business–model innovations are driving the world’s transition to renewable energy and electric vehicles. Against this backdrop, NITI Aayog, in collaboration with various ministries and industry partners, is organizing ‘MOVE: Global Mobility Summit’ in New Delhi on 7th and 8th September, 2018. The Summit will constitute three designated components – The Conclave, Digital Exhibition, and Featured Events. It will help drive the government’s goals for vehicle electrification, renewable energy integration and job growth and also speed up India’s transition to a clean energy economy.


    The Summit, which is the first of its kind, with over 1,200 participants expected from across the world including leaders from the government, industry, research organizations, academia, think tanks and civil society. They will come together and engage with key stakeholders within the rapidly transforming global mobility landscape and to evolve a public interest framework. The issues will be discussed based on 5 thematic papers during the parallel sessions. State specific will also be discussed, to evolve a shared, connected, zero emission and inclusive mobility agenda for the future.


    *****


    AKT/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544772) Visitor Counter : 2124