      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr. Jitendra Singh inaugurates 10KW transmitter of AIR at Patnitop in J&K
      Posted On: 02 SEP 2018 6:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh today inaugurated 10KW transmitter of All India Radio at Patnitop in Ramban District of Jammu & Kashmir, that will provide services to people living in a radius of around 60 km (aerial) in various districts.


    While inaugurating the FM transmitter Dr Singh said that with the commissioning of the relay transmitter at Patnitop, the high reaches and remote areas of the State in various districts like Ramban, Doda, Udhampur, Anantnag and parts of Jammu would now be able to listen to the radio for entertainment and information more clearly. He further said that the commissioning of the relay transmitter had fulfilled the long pending demand of the local people. Shri Neelam Langeh , MLA Ramban and Director General , All India Radio Shri Fayyaz Sheheryar were also present on the occasion.


    While appreciating All India Radio for coming upto the expectations of the people in the era of tough challenges and competitions from private TV channels, Dr. Jitendra Singh said that AIR can play a key role in countering the malicious and fake propaganda being unleashed by some anti-national elements and mischief mongers .


    While addressing the audience, Dr Singh said that in the era of social media where misinformation spreads quickly, the credibility and trustworthiness of AIR serves as an alternative yet accurate source of information for the audience. The medium is prompt, credible and instantaneous and has continued to remain so despite the fast changing media landscape.


    Dr Singh, while referring to radio as a medium for information as well as entertainment said that the medium is still relevant and its reach is greater than other types of media. Its uniqueness lies in the fact that it engages us even while not disengaging us from the work we are doing. The medium, its use and applications have changed over time, but it continues to remain relevant. Citing example, Dr Singh said that the use of the radio for education (Tele-education) has opened new niche for the applicability of the medium in the modern digital age.


    While highlighting the important role played by the public broadcaster towards the socio-economic development of the country, Dr Singh said that the FM Transmitter would provide people access to information related to developmental initiatives of the Government and will open a new chapter in the developmental journey of the region. The Union Minister said that now the people living in remote and mountainous areas of the J&K State would be able to listen to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi's 'Mann Ki Baat' programme and will also be able to know about various developmental programmes and welfare schemes launched by the Government.


    MLA Ramban while expressing gratitude on behalf of the people of the district for the installation of the FM transmitter at Patnitop said that it was a historic development for the physical as well as emotional connectivity of the remote areas of the district.


    Earlier in his address, Director General, All India Radio, Shri Fayyaz Sheheryar said that the installation of the 10 KW FM transmitter at Patnitop was a landmark achievement for reaching out to the people in remote areas of the state by the public broadcaster. He expressed the hope that the Station at Udhampur would be commissioned before the end of current year and ensured that steps would be taken for augmenting the reach of the public broadcaster in difficult areas of the state.


    The 10KW transmitter will help cover an ariel distance of 60 km in nearby districts of Doda, Ramban, Udhampur and parts of Jammu. It wil be available in the frequency of 101 MHz. It will provide services in districts of Ramban, Doda, Udhampur, Anantnag and parts of Jammu and will also be heard across the border especially in and around Sialkot.


    BB/NK/NJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1544778) Visitor Counter : 553