      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      Charging Stations for e-Vehicles Inaugurated in Dwarka
      Posted On: 06 SEP 2018 5:14PM by PIB Delhi


    Anant G. Geete inaugurating e-charging infrastructure in New Delhi


    Union Minister of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises,Anant G. GeeteinauguratedCharging Infrastructurein the premises ofDwarka metro station in New Delhi today.Charging Infrastructure has been developed by Rajasthan Electronics & Instruments Ltd. (REIL) having 18 charging stations. Speaking on the occasion the Minster said 400 e-rickshaws may be charged from these stations free of cost. The Minister said that if sponsors are ready then charging will remain free of cost.


    REIL has already set up 45 charging stations till datein different cities. Department of Heavy Industryfunds charging station installed by REIL. Last week the Minister had launched 8 charging stations in the premises of UdyogBhawan in New Delhi for facilitating charging of e-vehicles.


    For reduction in pollution levels and making cities cleaner and environment friendly, the Government is working on FAME-II Scheme having focus on mass & shared public transportation based on electric powertrain. The necessity for development of charging infrastructure for smooth roll out of electric mobility in the country is being addressed in the Phase-II of FAME Scheme. The Department has notified FAME India Scheme in the year 2015 under National Electric Mobility Mission Plan of the Government. The Phase-1 of this scheme is being implemented through four focus areas namely Demand Creation, Pilot Projects, Charging Infrastructure and Technology Platform and R&D. Under Demand Creation component of the scheme, incentive is available to buyers of electric and hybrid vehicles (xEVs) in the form of an upfront reduced purchase price to enable wider adoption.


    Managing Director, Delhi Metro Rail Corporationwasalso present on this occasion.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545167) Visitor Counter : 597