      AYUSH

      Two Day Training Programme on Documentation of Information into National AYUSH Morbidity and Standardized Terminologies Portal
      Posted On: 10 SEP 2018 3:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Two-day Training Programme on Documentation of Information into National AYUSH Morbidity and Standardized Terminologies Portal (NAMSTP) organised by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), Ministry of AYUSH commenced here today. The Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH Shri Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha inaugurated the training programme and addressed the gathering that included 74 nominated AYUSH professionals from across the country.


    The Secretary AYUSH, during his address, emphasized on taking forward the documentation of Morbidity Statistics across all healthcare setups in the country in a sustainable manner. He further stressed upon the mandatory requirements of AYUSH colleges and institutions funded by the Ministry of AYUSH under various schemes such as Centre of Excellence, Extra Mural Research, and Public Health Institutes etc. He said that it would certainly facilitate in mass documentation of AYUSH morbidity statistics in an effective manner. He also recommended that the Master Trainers, who are undergoing training, must take initiative to disseminate the capacity building in an effective manner across the stakeholders in different states.


    It is noted that the Ministry of AYUSH has initiated efforts for centralized collection of data regarding the number of patients being treated by the various institutions of AYUSH systems located across the country. The centralized portal, developed for this purpose is recognized as National AYUSH Morbidity and Standardized Terminologies Portal (NAMSTP). On this occasion research publication of the Central Council was also launched.


    Ministry of AYUSH has initiated efforts for centralized collection of morbidity statistics pertaining to various systems of medicine under the Ministry viz. Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy. In this regard, the Ministry in association with Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani research councils has developed Morbidity Codes and Standard Terminologies of Ayurveda, Unani and Siddha systems of medicine. For Homeopathy and Yoga & Naturopathy systems the International Classification of Diseases (ICD- 10/11 Codes) of World Health Organisation has been adopted for this purpose.


    This portal has the potential to revolutionize morbidity statistics data collection and may have a huge impact on the future policy making decision by bringing to light the contributions of various AYUSH systems in the healthcare delivery system of the country. The key features of the portal includes the Morbidity Codes and Standardized Terminologies of all the AYUSH systems for unambiguous reporting, electronic data submission through individual institution login IDs and also an integrated Electronic Health Records (E.H.R.) system for detailed data collection for individual institutions.


    In this regard, first training program entitled “Training workshop to initiate centralized collection of AYUSH morbidity statistics through National AYUSH Morbidity and Standardized Terminologies Portal (NAMSTP)” for selected AYUSH professionals of research councils, national institutes and academic institutions was conducted on 06 th October 2017.


    Four training sessions will be conducted in the two day training programme covering topics such as Introduction to Medical Coding (ICD 10, 11), Introduction to International Standardized Medical Terminologies (SNOMED-CT, Chinese Medicine etc.), Morbidity Coding Systems and applications in AYUSH domain, General introduction to Ayurveda-Siddha-Unani Standardized Terminologies and A-S-U National Morbidity Codes and also system wise hands on training.


    ***


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545513) Visitor Counter : 629
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu