      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      ‘Source India’ at 87th Izmir International tradeshow in Turkey
      Posted On: 06 SEP 2018 3:07PM by PIB Delhi


    India is the Partner Country in the 87 th Izmir International tradeshow which begins in Turkey from Friday, September 7, 2018. In this tradeshow India will also be launching a mega business pavilion ‘Source India’ hosting 75 Indian companieswith the aim of tie-ups in order to increase India’s exports to Turkey and other neighbouring countries.


    This is part of a series of Source India pavilions that the Trade Promotion Council of India (TPCI) is hosting in important tradeshows across the world for boosting India’s exports. TPCI is the trade and investment promotion organization of the Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce &Industry, Government of India, and works to open new areas for co-operation in trade and investment between India and rest of the world.


    The 87 th Izmir International tradeshow will be held in Izmir – the third most populous city in Turkey, after Istanbul and Ankara – from 7 th to 11 th September, 2018. Owing to India’s participation as Focus Country status, India’s National Anthem will be played and the National Flag displayed on the screens put up in the show. Special signage will be erected to lead buyers and visitors to the ‘Source India’ pavilion.


    Source India, with 75 Indian participating companies, is a multi-product pavilion though some of the key potential areas for increasing trade with Turkey are ceramics, cereals and machinery or mechanical appliances.


    Turkey’s ceramic imports from the world is USD 339.8 million and only USD 16.6 million from India and India exportsmore than USD1.2 billion worth of ceramic products to the world.


    India exports cereals worth USD 91.6 million to Turkey compared to Turkey’s import of USD 1.7 billion worth of cereals from the world. India has the capacity to increase its export in this sector as it is currently exporting USD7.3 billion worth of cereals to the world.


    India’s Ambassador to Ankara, Sanjay Bhattacharyya, hassaid that there is great potential for tie-ups between Indian and Turkish agriculture and food processing sectors. Collaborationsmay range from farming technology, high yielding varieties, farm machinery, food processing and cold storage. The large Turkish market and preferential access to European markets will provide great opportunities for Indian entrepreneurs to set up joint ventures in Turkey.


    ***


    MM/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545143) Visitor Counter : 1333
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi