      Ministry of Tourism

      First Tribal Circuit Project under Swadesh Darshan Scheme to be inaugurated in Chhattisgarh tomorrow;
      
      74 projects worth Rs. 5997.47 Crore sanctioned by the Tourism Ministry under Swadesh Darshan Scheme till date

      Posted On: 13 SEP 2018 12:20PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri. K.J Alphons, the Minister of State for Tourism (IC), Government of India will be inaugurating the project “Development of Tribal Circuit: Jashpur- Kunkuri- Mainpat- Kamleshpur- Maheshpur- Kurdar-Sarodadadar- Gangrel- Kondagaon- Nathiya Nawagaon- Jagdalpur- Chitrakoot- Tirthgarh in Chhattisgarh” implemented under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme of Ministry of Tourism, in Gangrel, Chhattisgarh on 14 th September 2018. This is the second project under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme being inaugurated in the country.


    This project which is to be inaugurated was sanctioned by the Ministry of Tourism in February 2016 for Rs. 99.21 Crores. The project covers thirteen sites in Chhattisgarh i.e. Jashpur, Kunkuri, Mainpat, Kamleshpur, Maheshpur, Kurdar, Sarodadadar, Gangrel, Kondagaon, Nathiya Nawagaon, Jagdalpur, Chitrakoot, Tirthgarh.


    Swadesh Darshan scheme is one of the flagship schemes of the Ministry of tourism, for development of thematic circuits in the country in a planned and prioritised manner. The scheme was launched in 2014 -15 and as on date the Ministry has sanctioned 74 projects worth Rs. 5997.47 Crore to 31 States and UTs. 30 projects / major components of these projects are expected to be completed this year.


    Development of Tribes and Tribal Culture is one of the prime area of focus for the Ministry of Tourism. The Ministry is carrying out an array of activities for development and promotion of tourism in the tribal region. The Ministry is developing the tourism infrastructure in the region under its schemes of Swadesh Darshan. Under the tribal circuit theme of the scheme the Ministry has sanctioned 4 projects to Nagaland, Telangana and Chhattisgarh for Rs. 381.37 Crores.


    Chhattisgarh is known for its exceptional scenic beauty and uniquely rich cultural heritage. The state has always been synonymous with tribes and tribal culture. Over one third of the state population is of tribes, the tribes here are unique in their lifestyles and have beautifully retained their own culture and traditions for centuries. Given the significant dominance of indigenous population in the region, the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India has selected Chhattisgarh to be included in the Swadesh Darshan Scheme under Tribal Circuit theme, with an objective to acknowledge the sovereignty of tribes, promote the rich and diverse primitive assets in the state.


    Major components sanctioned include eco log huts, craft haats, souvenir shops/ kiosk, tourist reception & facilitation centres, open amphitheatre, tribal interpretation centres, workshop centres, tourist amenities centres, last mile connectivity, wayside amenities, viewpoints, nature trails, solar illuminations, signages solid waste management etc. These components are perceived to improve existing tourist facilities and enhance the overall tourist experience, therefore, help in getting more visitors which in return will increase job opportunities in the area.


    *****


    JP/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545969) Visitor Counter : 1564