      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      WCD Ministry invites applications for National Children Awards 2018
      
      Logo design contest for the Awards launched

      Posted On: 08 SEP 2018 12:30PM by PIB Delhi

    The Ministry of Women and Child Development has invited nominations for the National Children Awards 2018. This national recognition, which is conferred by the President of India, is given to children with outstanding achievements in the fields of innovation, scholastic achievements, sports, arts and culture, social service and bravery. The last date to submit nominations is now September 30, 2018.


    Elaborating on the awards, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, Union Minister for Women and Child Development, said, "The National Children Awards is an amazing platform to honour the exceptional achievements of our children and those who strive towards their welfare, development and protection in a way to inspire others. Through the awards, the government re-affirms its commitment towards ensuring the development of our children and honouring their talent and commitment to society.”


    Applications are sought in the categories of 'National Child Awards' and 'National Child Welfare Awards'.


    Recipients of the 'National Child Awards' receive a medal, a cash prize of Rs. 1,00,000/-, book vouchers worth Rs. 10,000/-, a certificate and citation.


    The 'National Child Welfare Awards' recognise the work of individuals and institutions who have made a remarkable contribution towards the service of children in the fields of child development, protection and welfare. The recipients receive a cash prize of Rs. 1,00,000/-, a citation and a certificate.


    The Ministry has also launched a logo design contest for the awards. Details of the contest are available on the Facebook & Twitter accounts of the Ministry (@MinistryWCD). Last date to submit entries for the contest is September 23, 2018.


    Details of the awards are available at www.nca-wcd.nic.in


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545400) Visitor Counter : 1325
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil