      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Water storage level of 91 major reservoirs of the country goes up by four percent
      Posted On: 07 SEP 2018 10:28AM by PIB Delhi


    The water storage available in 91 major reservoirs of the country for the week ending on September 06, 2018 was 119.042 BCM which is 73% of total storage capacity of these reservoirs. This percentage was at 69% for the week ending on August 30, 2018. The level of water storage in the week ending on September 06, 2018 was 130% of the storage of corresponding period of last year and 114% of storage of average of last ten years.


    The total storage capacity of these 91 reservoirs is 161.993 BCM which is about 63% of the total storage capacity of 257.812 BCM which is estimated to have been created in the country. 37 Reservoirs out of these 91 have hydropower benefit with installed capacity of more than 60 MW.


    REGION WISE STORAGE STATUS:-


    NORTHERN REGION


    The northern region includes States of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. There are six reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.01 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 13.03 BCM which is 72% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 86% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 80% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the corresponding period of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    EASTERN REGION


    The Eastern region includes States of Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Tripura. There are 15 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.83 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 14.93 BCM which is 79% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 62% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 61% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    WESTERN REGION


    The Western region includes States of Gujarat and Maharashtra. There are 27 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 31.26 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 17.85 BCM which is 57% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 62% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 60% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the storage of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    CENTRAL REGION


    The Central region includes States of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. There are 12 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 42.30 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 30.71 BCM which is 73% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 59% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 65% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the storage of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    SOUTHERN REGION


    The Southern region includes States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states), Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. There are 31 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 51.59 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 42.53 BCM which is 82% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 38% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 62% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    States having better storage than last year for corresponding period are Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states), Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. States having lesser storage than last year for corresponding period are Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tripura and Gujarat.


    ****


    NP/ SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1545271) Visitor Counter : 455
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Marathi