      Ministry of Tourism

      Tourism Ministry has Sanctioned Projects of Rs. 80.37 Crores for Development of Rural Circuit In Kerala : Shri K. J. Alphons
      Posted On: 05 SEP 2018 8:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State for Tourism (I/C) Shri K.J. Alphons today announced that the Ministry of Tourism has sanctioned the project “Development of Rural Circuit: Malanad Malabar Cruise Tourism Project’ in Kerala under Swadesh Darshan Scheme for Rs. 80.37 Crores. The project focuses on development of water based thematic cruise experiences in and around Valapattanam and Kuppam Rivers of Kannur District. The three thematic cruises developed under the project are as follows:
    a) Malabari Cuisine and Culinary Cruise in Valapattanam River (Muthappan Cruise) - Cruise starts from Valapattanam to Munambu Kadavu in Valapattanam River with an effective Cruise Length of 40 km.
    b) yyam Cruise in Valapattanam River - Cruise starts from Valapattanam to Pazhayangadi in Valapattanam River with an effective length of 16 km.
    c) Mangrove Cruise in Kuppam River - Cruise starts from Pazhayangadi to Kuppam in Kuppam River with an effective Cruise length of 16 km.


    
    Under the project the Ministry has sanctioned funds for development of basic infrastructure facilities like Passenger Terminals, Boat Terminals, Jetties, Boat Race Gallery, Restaurants, Food Courts, Performance Areas, Open Air atres, Angling Yards, Parking, Cycle tracks, Handicraft Kiosks, Bio Toilets, Wi-Fi facilities, Drinking Water Facilities, Floating Markets for local produce, Solar Lamps, Watch Towers, Solid Waste Management, CCTV, Signage etc. The cruises under the project will be operated under the PPP mode.
    
    waterways have been an important mode of transport in Kerala from the time immemorial with its 44 Rivers and 7 Backwater regions. The total length of the navigation route in the Kerala is 1900 km. This is tune with the water based tourism which is getting prominence all over the world.


    ******
    

    

    NB/JP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545057) Visitor Counter : 897
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam