      Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs

      Prizes Distribution Function for 21st National Youth Parliament Competition, 2017-18 for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas held
      Posted On: 07 SEP 2018 5:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs organized the Prize Distribution Function for the 21 st National Youth Parliament Competition, 2017 - 18 for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas, here today .


    Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs has been organizing the National Youth Parliament Competition in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas throughout the country for the past 21 years . Under the scheme, the 21 st Competition was organized among 64 Vidyalayas, spread over 8 regions of Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti all over India.


    Addressing the gathering, Secretary ( Parliamentary Affairs ) , Shri S . N . Tripathi said that the Youth Parliament Scheme aims at familiarizing the students with the practice and procedures of Parliament, techniques of discussion and debate; develop leadership qualities, spirit of self - discipline and tolerance of diverse opinions and healthy competition; inculcating among younger generations the art and skill of effective oratory, righteous expression of views and other virtues of a democratic way of life .


    On this occasion, the students of the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Kaimur, Bihar, which stood first in the 21 st National Youth Parliament Competition for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas and were awarded the Running Parliamentary Shield and Trophy, presented a short sitting of ‘Youth Parliament’.


    Merit trophies were distributed to 7 Vidyalayas for standing first in their respective regions, the list of which is given below :


    1 . Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Solan, Himachal Pradesh ( Chandigarh Region )


    2 . Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Auraiya, Uttar Pradesh ( Lucknow Region )


    3 . Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Dhemaji, Assam ( Shillong Region )


    4 . Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Sangli, Maharashtra ( Pune Region )


    5 . Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Pathanamthitta, Kerala ( Hyderabad Region )


    6 . Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Budwa, Banswara I, Rajasthan ( Jaipur Region )


    7 . Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Vidisha, Madhya Pradesh ( Bhopal Region )


    Other dignitaries who graced the occasion were Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha), Smt. Meenakshi Lekhi, Commissioner, Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti, Shri Bishwajit Kumar Singh and other senior officers from the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, along with Principals, teachers, students and their parents .


    *****


    PP / VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545346) Visitor Counter : 319