      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      A delegation of Indian Information Service Officers meets MoS Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 10 SEP 2018 5:57PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation of Indian Information Service (IIS) officers called on the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today. The officers discussed with the Minister various issues related to their service. The delegation of officers was led by the President of IIS Group ‘A’ Association Shri Anindya Sengupta.


    While interacting with the officers, Dr Jitendra Singh said that communication plays an important role in any set up and the Government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has made efforts so that the information reaches to the citizens of India, even in the far flung areas such as North East. He further said that Government has tried to rejuvenate the communication through radio, since this channel of information has wider reach in otherwise inaccessible areas. He said that Prime Minister himself reaches to the common man of India through the ‘Mann ki Baat’ programme on radio. The Minister added that he has recently inaugurated 10KW transmitter of All India Radio at Patnitop in Ramban District of Jammu & Kashmir, that will provide services to people living in a radius of around 60 km (aerial) in various districts. He also discussed other issues related to communication system prevalent in the Government and steps required to strengthen it so as to increase its reach to the people at ground level across India.


    The Minister said that Indian Information Service Officers play an important role in reaching out to the common man and informing the public about the policies and programmes of the Government. Dr Singh said that the priority of the Government is to provide enabling working environment to the employees and various steps have been taken in this direction.


    During the meeting, the IIS officers discussed various issues related to their service such as promotions and cadre management. The Association of IIS Group ‘A’ officers also presented a memorandum to the Minister. After listening to the officers, Dr Jitendra Singh assured that he will discuss the matter with the concerned officials in DoPT.


    ********


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545546) Visitor Counter : 320