      Ministry of Education

      Children have key role to eradicate illiteracy from India - Shri Prakash Javadekar
      Posted On: 08 SEP 2018 7:46PM by PIB Delhi


    The National level function to celebrate 52 nd International Literacy Day was organised at New Delhi today. Union Minister of Human Resource Development Shri Praksah Javadekar was the Chief Guest on this occasion. While speaking on the occasion Union Minister said that it is very sad to see a large number of illiterate people in the country even after 70 years of independence. To eradicate illiteracy from India literacy mission must be a social movement across the country. He further said that Government is committed to make New India and New India will be literate India (Saakshar Bharat). A new nationwide programme like swachh Bharat mission will also be launched to achieve the target timely.


    The Minister said that children have key role to eradicate illiteracy from our country. He urged all students to come forward and teach their illiterate family members so that they also can read and write. He also said that if we want to achieve target of complete literacy in coming years then we need to work together in the education sector. He also suggested that to increase the pace of learning in illiterate people we should simplify the material and teaching method so that they can learn easily.


    The Minister also said that we see education sector as a whole therefore we recently launched ‘Samagra Siksha’ which is an integrated scheme for school education extending support to States from pre-school to senior secondary levels for the first time. Under this scheme about one million schools will get library grant of Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 20,000 to strengthen the libraries to ensure that “Padhega Bharat Badhega Bharat”. He further said every school will get sports equipment under the Samagra Shiksha, at the cost of Rs. 5000 for Primary, Rs. 10,000 for Upper Primary & up to Rs. 25,000 for SSC & HSC schools to inculcate & emphasize relevance of sports to realise the dream of “Khelega India Khilega India”. Shri Javadekar said Kasturba Gandhi BalikaVidyalaya (KGBV) to be expanded from Class 6-8 to Class 6-12 to fulfil Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s commitment to BetiBachaoBetiPadhao


    The Message of Director General, UNESCO was also read by UNESCO Representative on the occasion.


    Secretary, School Education & Literacy Smt. Rina Ray was also present during the event.


    The Inaugural Session of the function followed by a Panel Discussion on the contemporary issues of Adult Literacy to determine the future course of action which needs to be taken to eradicate scourge of illiteracy in the country. The issues include ‘International perspective in achieving SDG relating to Adult Literacy & sharing of strategies followed internationally for eradication of Adult Illiteracy in 15 & above age group’, ‘Role of IEC & ICT in Promoting Literacy’ and ‘Issues relating to Mobilization’. Beside these, experiences will also be shared by voluntary organizations, such as ‘Rotary India Literacy Mission’ and ‘Delhi School Literacy Project’ under the topic ‘Role of Voluntary Action in Promoting Adult Literacy’ to motivate and orient the audience. The session will be chaired by Shri Shekhar Mehta, Chairman, Rotary India Literacy Mission.


    The National Literacy Mission Authority, Department of School Education & Literacy, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India has invited more than 650 invitees/stakeholders across the country to participate in International Literacy Day 2018 at Pravasi Bharatiya Kendra (MEA), 15-A Rizal Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi-110021 hoping that they will disseminate the message of Literacy with a Mission Mode for Eradication of Illiteracy.


    Background


    International Literacy Day (ILD) is celebrated on 8 th September every year all over the world. The celebration of ILD started following a recommendation of the World Conference of Ministers of Education on the Eradication of Illiteracy which met in Tehran in September 1965. The Conference recommended that 8 th September, the date of the inauguration of the Conference, be proclaimed International Literacy Day and be observed world-wide. UNESCO in 14 th Session of its General Conference held in Paris in November 1966, formally proclaimed 8 th September as International Literacy Day. Since then, UNESCO has celebrated International Literacy Day with the aim to sensitize and mobilize international public opinion and to elicit their interest and active support for literacy activities – one of UNESCO’s major pre-occupations.


    In India, literacy and particularly Adult literacy has been a national priority since independence. With a view to eradicate illiteracy and impart functional literacy and lifelong education to adult education, National Literacy Mission was launched by Government of India in 1988. Since then, India has been celebrating International Literacy Day on 8 th September to reaffirm its national commitment to achieve goal and objectives of literacy and express solidarity with international community in its efforts to eradicate illiteracy.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK/RK/ILD-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545430) Visitor Counter : 1030
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil