      NITI Aayog

      MOVE: India’s First Global Mobility Summit 2018 to be inaugurated by the Prime Minister on 7th September
      
      With disruptions in the mobility sector, we will be able to generate more employment & enhance the ease of living for citizens in India: VC NITI Aayog

      Posted On: 06 SEP 2018 3:05PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate MOVE: India’s ever first Global Mobility Summit organized by NITI Aayog at Vigyan Bhawan in the capital on 7 th and 8 th September. The focus of the summit is on raising awareness about various aspects of Mobility and bringing various stakeholders involved in enhancing mobility across different platforms. Representative from various Intergovernmental Organizations, Academia, Policy Think tanks from India and abroad, Global leaders from across the mobility sector such as OEMs, Battery Manufacturers, Charging Infrastructure Providers, technology Solution Providers will be sharing their views on enhancing mobility over the next two days during the summit.


    NITI AayogVice Chairman Dr. Rajiv Kumar, and Chief Executive Officer Shri. Amitabh Kant, held a curtain-raiser press conference ahead of the summit in the capital today. Secretaries from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Ministry of Power, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, and representatives from the Department of Heavy Industries also present on this occasion. Vice Chairman NITI Aayog Dr. Rajiv Kumar said that with disruptions in the mobility sector, we will be able to generate more employment & enhance the ease of living for citizens in India:CEO NITI Aayog, Amitabh Kant told that our main aim through the Global Mobility Summit is to revolutionise the way people travel in India, along with making mobility more connected, shared and seamless. Secretary, Ministry of Road Transport & Highways, Shri Yudhvir Malik said that optimal utilisation of road space, along with giving priority to road safety is how we envision the future of mobility in India. Secretary Power, Ajay Kumar Bhalla talked about initiatives to support the charging infrastructure and shed light on steps required to support electric mobility in India. Secretary, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Ajay Prakash Sawhney emphasized that cyber security & development of intelligent transportation systems will be key components for electrically led mobility in India.


    The Global Mobility Summit is the first of its kind, with over 2200 participants expected from across the world including leaders from the government, industry, research organizations, academia, think tanks and civil society. Components of the Summit include: the core conclave, digital exhibition, Mobility Week with Featured Events and a variety of stakeholder consultations.


    State and Regional Consultations


    In the months leading up the Conclave, consultations were held across States, with visiting teams from NITI Aayog, in State Task Forces. State-specific issues will also be discussed, to evolve a shared, connected, zero emission and inclusive mobility agenda for the future. A Compendium of State Strategies, a Summary Compendium and a Compendium of Global Best Practices will be released on 7th September, outlining the results of this consultative process.


    Other Consultations


    15 webinars were held with participants from around the world between July 30th and August 3rd. Further, MoveHack, the global hackathon saw around 35,000 registrations from around the globe for coding solutions to mobility problems. Together, these will help drive the government’s goals for vehicle electrification, renewable energy integration and job growth and also speed up India’s transition to a clean energy economy.


    Featured Events: Mobility Week


    The Mobility Week kicked off last reached a total number of 18 featured events organized in partnership with 25+ organizations and a collective reach of 20,000 people. Winners from Pitch to Move and Move Hack will be felicitated at the Inaugural Ceremony by the Prime Minister.


    Digital Exhibition: Movementum 2018


    With partners including Mahindra Electric, Hero Cycles, Tata Motors, Tata Power, Ola, Maruti Suzuki, Honda, Toyota, Bosch, Sun Mobility and more, the Digital Exhibition Will showcase installations including models, screens, vehicles and more at the cutting edge of mobility technology. It will also include a 360 degree immersive experience, highlighting the quantum mobility jump that India is poised for.


    Sessions and Speakers:


    The Summit will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister. The Inaugural session will include remarks by 11 global CEOs, with 12 more key CEOs in a panel discussions. Union Ministers speaking at various sessions include:Shri Nitin Gadkari, Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation , Shri PiyushGoyal, Minister of Railways and Coal, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Minister of Law and Justice and Electronics and Information Technology,Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs&Shri Jayant Sinha, Minister of State for Civil Aviation.


    Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri DevendraFadnavis is expected to speak on Day 2, along with Lt. Governor, N.C.T of Delhi, Shri Anil Baijal are also expected to address the gathering..


    Details of thematic sessions are as follows:


    1. Maximising Asset Utilisation


    Asset Utilization and Services track will focus on use of shared mobility, service provision and innovation in the mobility sector to dramatically increase the utilization of the infrastructure and vehicle assets to carry passengers and cargo.


    2. Comprehensive Electrification And Alternative Fuels


    This track will take forward the existing public discourse on comprehensive electrification agenda and energy security. It will discuss changing dynamics of energy needs for transport and will explore viability of electric and other new energy solutions, taking an ecosystem view, including supply chain, mining & manufacturing, timeline, research priorities, emissions mandates, and policy opportunities.


    3. Reinventing Public Transport


    The session on Reinventing Public Transport will focus on emerging concepts and technology applications that can create cost and context appropriate solutions for public transit. This will include transit planning, intermodal connectivity and lessons learned from private sector innovations.


    4. Goods Transport And Logistics


    Enhancing the efficiency of transporting goods will also lower the costs of doing business for agriculture and rural economies. With the expansion of commerce, goods movement is ripe for transformation – from optimized trucking, inter-modal transfer, concurrent passenger/freight traffic, to business model innovations like freight/driver swaps, and technology opportunities such as autonomous trucks, delivery robots, and drone delivery models. This session will look at the footprint of freight, including pollution patterns, urban entry patterns, multi-use vehicles and other aspects to maximize efficiency of goods movement.


    5. Data Analytics And Mobility


    The vast amount of data generated in mobility, pertaining to public transit use, mobile phone usage, navigation systems, connected devices, autonomous vehicles, among others, reflects an unprecedented potential for improving decision-making and fostering innovation. The rising volume of data also raises new questions about information ownership, data sharing and cyber-security. This session will look at the generation, use and potential for data and related innovations to facilitate improved outcomes for innovators, users and other stakeholders.


    Participants:


    30+ global CEOs, 100+ state officials, 100+ foreign delegates and 200+ Indian CEOs will be participating in the event. International representation from embassies and the private sector will include United States of America, Japan, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, New Zealand, Austria, Germany, Brazil and more.


    Click here for PPT on Global Mobility Summit


    *****


    AKT/KP/SH/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545146) Visitor Counter : 1734
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil