      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Piyush Goyal launches a web portal “Rail Sahyog” today
      
      It will provide a platform for the Corporates & PSUs to contribute to creation of amenities at/near Railway Stations through CSR funds
      
      Posted On: 11 SEP 2018 5:43PM by PIB Delhi


      Indian Railways, with its vast network and presence across the length and breadth of the country, has always been at the forefront to serve the society. Inspired by the vision of Hon’ble Prime Minister for a New India by 2022, Railways is taking various initiatives for upgrading its infrastructure, technology, hygiene among host of other things for an enhanced passenger experience.


      The Indian Railways has identified opportunities in areas wherein corporate collaborations can be fostered which can positively impact the entire ecosystem under Railways. In this regard, the Minister of Railways and Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal launched a web portal www.railsahyog.in today. The web portal will provide a platform for the Corporates and PSUs to contribute to creation of amenities at/near Railway Stations through Corporate Social Responsibility funds. Chairman, Railway Board, Shri Ashwani Lohani with other Railway Board Members, Secretary, Ministry of Coal, Shri Dr Inder Jit Singh and Senior Officials of Railways and Coal were present on the occasion.


      The companies desirous of contributing can show willingness on the portal by registering their requests. The requests will be processed by Railway officials. Based on the principle of first come first serve, the requests will be shortlisted and selected applicants will be intimated to deposit the funds with Railways/nominated agencies like RITES/RAILTEL etc. The nominated agency will get the work executed thereafter.


      Speaking on the occasion, Shri Piyush Goyal said that the “Rail Sahyog” portal is an example of changing times & speedy execution of projects in Railways. Salient feature of this portal is its simplicity & transparency. This portal will provide an opportunity for Industry/ Companies/ Associations to collaborate with Railways. This portal will not only be beneficial for passengers but also for neighbourhood of Railway vicinity.” The Minister emphasised that the cost indicated against each of the activities identified to be undertaken in this initiative are only indicative in nature but the main focus would be on ensuring creation of good quality assets through this collaboration. The Minister further added that the portal has been envisaged as a platform for all including individuals as also private & public organisation to contribute towards CSR activities in association with Indian Railways.


      Speaking on the occasion, Shri Ashwani Lohani said, “Rail Sahyog” will remove all hurdles faced by the companies for cooperation with Railways. Individuals, Private companies have the freedom to execute projects in Railways.”


      The activities identified to be funded through CSR are :

        * Construction of toilets in circulating areas of all stations with provision of low cost sanitary pad vending machine & incinerator in female toilets and condom vending machine in male toilets and initial one year maintenance. Approximate Cost per station: Rs. 22-30 Lakh.

        * Providing free Wi-Fi at stations through setting up Hotspots. Approximate cost per station: Rs. 10.30 lakhs to Rs 12.30 lakhs


        * Provision of Benches at station Platforms as facility for senior citizens/disabled. Approximate cost per set: Rs. 17500 to Rs. 47500.


        * Bottle crushing machines at 2175 major stations for ensuring environmental sustainability. The empty plastic water/cold drink bottles generated from the Railway passengers will be crushed in these machines to manage plastic pollution. Approximate cost per machine: Rs. 3.5 lakhs to Rs. 4.5 Lakhs.


        * Dustbins at all stations for Swachh Bharat will help in preventing littering around. Separate dustbins for wet/dry waste need to be provided at circulating area of Station and Platforms. Approximate cost per set (two dustbins) : Rs. 4500


      Based on the response received, further additional items will be considered for funding through CSR.


      For any information, kindly contact “Rail Sahyog” through e-mail mentioned below:-


      Email : info@railsahyog.in


      To follow “Rail Sahyog” on Facebook & Twitter, kindly see the link below:-


      Facebook-https://www.facebook.com/RailSahyog


      Twitter- https://twitter.com/RailSahyog


      *****


      SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545691) Visitor Counter : 2010
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali
    
    
    

*