      Ministry of Education

      ‘Swachhta Hi Seva’ campaign launched in KVs throughout the country by HRD Minister
      
      Students Swacchagrahis are our ambassadors of cleanliness and will bring out positive change through awareness and sensitization programs – Shri Prakash Javadekar

      Posted On: 15 SEP 2018 5:13PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Prakash Javadekar participated in the ‘Swachhta hi Seva’ programme organized by Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Gole Market today. The programme included many cleanliness activities both inside and outside the campus.


    The Minister along with students watched the interaction programme of the Prime Minister with a cross-section of people from 18 locations across the country at the launch of Swachhata Hi Seva movement, telecasted on Doordarshan Channel.


    The Minister also participated in the ‘ Shramdaan’ activities at the programme venue along with the students of classes 9 th to 12 th of KV, Gole Market. Many teachers and officials of KVS and the Ministry also took part in the Shramdaan. Shri Javadekar himself collected plastics, waste papers etc to clean the roads. He also appreciated the efforts of the participants of the cleanliness drive who actively cleaned the campus both from inside and outside within a periphery of 1 km.


    While addressing on the ocassion Shri Javadekar said that the students swacchagrahis are our ambassadors of cleanliness and will bring out positive change through awareness and sensitization programs. He said that we should collectively make an effort to make our country clean and beautiful by personalizing the public hygiene. He also appealed to give away the habit of littering and inculcate these values in our behavior to address the menace of filthiness.


    Shri Javadekar envisioned of a plastic free India, as plastic is non-biodegradable and a very hazardous waste for our environment. He also assured that these sanitation drives will be started in all schools across the country to fulfil the Swachhta Mission of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    Secretary (SE&L), MHRD, Sht Rina Ray visited Kendriya Vidyalaya, Andrewsganj to join ‘Swacchta Hi Seva’ campaign with KV students. Other senior officials of the Ministry also visited other KVs in Delhi to join hands with students for the mission of Swacch Bharat.


    The Swachhata hi Seva movement, which aims at generating greater public participation towards Swachhta, is being organized in the run up to the fourth anniversary of the Swachh Bharat Mission, on October 2 nd , 2018, which will also mark the commencement of the 150 th year celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi.


    *****


    NB/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546232) Visitor Counter : 543