      Vice President's Secretariat

      Play a key role in deepening India-Serbia relations: Vice President asks Indian Diaspora
      
      Leads the first ever high-level Indian delegation to Serbia since the breakup of Yugoslavia
      
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2018 11:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu asked Indians living in Serbia to play a key role in deepening India-Serbia relations. He was interacting with the Indian Community in Belgrade, Serbia on his arrival today. The Minister of State for Finance, Shri Shiv Pratap Shukla, the Ambassador of India to Serbia, Shri Subrata Bhattacharjee and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President's visit assumes significance as India and Serbia celebrate 70 years of diplomatic ties this year. This is the first high level visit from India to Serbia since the breakup of Yugoslavia in early 1990.


    Calling the Indian Diaspora as unofficial ambassadors of India to Serbia, the Vice President asked them to play an important role in deepening India’s relationship with Serbia. You are the face of India in Serbia exemplifying to the people you interact with, the mind and heart of Bharat. You are the valuable human resource for India bringing in new Knowledge, skills and attitudes to accelerate India’s growth, he said.


    The Vice President said that there is a vast potential in further expanding bilateral economic cooperation. One of the key objectives of his visit to Serbia is to expand the political, economic and cultural relations that tie the two countries together, he added.


    Talking about cultural ties and people to people contact, the Vice President said that he was impressed to learn about the interest of Serbian people in Indian culture, particularly in Yoga and Ayurveda.


    The Vice President said that he greatly appreciate the unilateral gesture of Serbian government to abolish visas for Indian nationals to travel to Serbia for short duration. I am sure, you are taking advantage of the e-Visa scheme of India launched in 2015 and further liberalised last year for business, tourism and health purposes, he added.


    The Vice President also apprised the gathering of the initiatives taken by the Indian Government for the benefit of the Indian Diaspora. He said that India is on the move and is witnessing transformation all spheres with its approach – Reform, Perform and Transform.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546214) Visitor Counter : 307