      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi launches National Scholarship Portal Mobile App
      Posted On: 13 SEP 2018 5:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi launched the country's first "National Scholarship Portal Mobile App" (NSP Mobile App) here today.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Naqvi said that this "National Scholarship Portal Mobile App" will ensure a smooth, accessible and hassle-free scholarship system for students from poor and weaker sections. He said that all the scholarships are being given directly into bank accounts of the needy students under Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode through the National Scholarship Portal which has ensured that there is no scope for duplication and leakage.


    Shri Naqvi said that the "National Scholarship Portal Mobile App" will prove beneficial for students, and will help in strengthening a transparent mechanism for the scholarships. The mobile app will be beneficial for the students in many ways: students will get all the information regarding various scholarships on this mobile app; they will be able to apply for scholarships sitting in their home; students can upload necessary documents on this mobile app; students can check the status of their application, scholarship disbursement etc. Students from far-flung/hilly areas/North East will be the most benefitted.


    Shri Naqvi said that the Ministry of Minority Affairs has completely gone online, which has eliminated middlemen and benefits of every scheme are reaching directly to the needy without any obstacle. The Minister said that during the last about 4 years, the Modi Government’s “Empowerment without Appeasement” policy has ensured that record about 3 crore students belonging to poor and weaker sections of Minorities have been benefitted from various scholarship programmes. The beneficiaries include about 1 crore 63 lakh girls. He added that school dropout rate among Muslim girls, which was earlier more than 70 per cent, has now been reduced to about 35-40 per cent due to awareness and educational empowerment programmes of the Modi Government. Our goal is to bring it down to zero per cent. Transparent and hassle-free scholarship system has helped in this endeavour.


    Shri Naqvi said that Ministry of Minority Affairs has worked with commitment to “3E- Education, Employment & Empowerment”. In the last about one year, thousands of educational institutions of all Minority communities including Madarsas, have been included in the mainstream education system by connecting them with "3T-Teacher, Tiffin, Toilet".


    *****


    FH/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1546012) Visitor Counter : 1412
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam