      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      “Mushairas” to be organised by Ministry of Minority Affairs, Govt. of India, to celebrate 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi
      Posted On: 23 SEP 2018 12:04PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Minority Affairs, Govt. of India, is organising “Mushairas”, based on the themes of teachings and principles of Mahatma Gandhi, across the country as a part of the Modi Government’s decision to commemorate 150 th Birth Anniversary of the Father of the Nation.


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that the first such “Mushaira”will be held on 06 th October, 2018 at New Delhi’s Dr. Ambedkar International Centre, Janpath from 03 PM onwards, where renowned Urdu poets will be performing various programmes based on the themes of Mahatma Gandhi’s message of harmony, national integrity, democratic values, non-violence and global peace.


    Famous Urdu poets likeGulzar Sahab, Janab Wasim Barelvi, Janab Haseeb Soz, Janab Manzar Bhopali, poetess Naseem Nikhat, Janab Iqbal Ashar, Janab Surendra Shajar, Janab Hasan Kamal, poetess Shabeena Adeeb, Shri Rajesh Reddy, Janab Mansoor Osmani Janab Popular Aizaz, Janab Ehsaan Qureshi etc have been invited to perform in these programmes to be organised by Ministry of Minority Affairs at New Delhi on 06 th October 2018 and in Mumbai, Lucknow, Chandigarh,Ahmedabad, Bangaluru, Ranchi and other cities in coming days. O ther famous poets will also participate.


    Shri Naqvi said that these programmes will spread message and principles of Mahatma Gandhi, and such programmes will also strengthen social harmony and brotherhood in the society.


    The Centr al Government has decided to celebrate the 150 th Birth Anniversary of Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi and to spread Mahatma Gandhi's legacy among the people at the national and international level.


    A national committee has been formed under the chairmanship of President Shri Ram Nath Kovind in this regard. Vice-President Shri Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, former Prime Minister Dr. Manohan Singh, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Shri Ghulam Nabi Azad, Chief Ministers of all the states, various Cabinet Ministers, representatives of political parties, renowned Gandhians, social activists and noted public figures are part of the committee. The committee also comprises of noted public figures from other countries. The committee’s mandate is to chalk out the plan, programmes and activities under the commemoration of the 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.


    **********


    F/H


    

    
    (Release ID: 1546984) Visitor Counter : 1216
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil