      Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)

      Cabinet approves Indore (Mangaliyagaon) — Budni New Line (205.5 Km) with Electrification
      
      Will reduce the distance between Jabalpur and Indore by 68 Kms
      
      Reduce travel time between Indore to Mumbai and towards South India as well
      
      Project will generate direct employment during construction for about 49.32 lakh mandays

      Posted On: 19 SEP 2018 1:27PM by PIB Delhi

    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved to construct new line between Budni to Indore (Mangaliyagaon) with approximate length of 205.5 Km. Total estimated cost of this project is Rs. 3261.82 crore.


    The main purpose of this project is the development of backward area and reduction in travel time from Indore to Jabalpur as well as from Indore to Mumbai and towards southern side also, as this will reduce distance by 68 Kms compared to present available route via Bhopal. It will provide better transport facilities for public and industries in this area. It will also help to provide/generate employment opportunities in the project area. The project will generate direct employment during construction for about 49.32 Lakhs man-days.


    The proposed line will take off from existing yard of Budni and will connect at Mangaliyagaon existing station of Western Railway near Indore. 10 New crossing stations and 7 new halt stations are proposed to be constructed enroute. The new line will serve Sehore, Dewas and Indore districts and will provide direct link from Budni to Indore bypassing the congested route of Bhopal-Itarsi including Ghat section from Budni to Berkheda.


    The new line will provide basic infrastructure support for industrial development of the surrounding area having large socio-economic ramifications.


    This project is meant for development of backward area of this region and to provide connectivity to various towns/villages like Nasrullaganj, Khategoan and Kannod, where presently there is no railway connectivity.


    ****


    NW/AKT/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546618) Visitor Counter : 841
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil