      Department of Atomic Energy

      Agreement signed between Heavy Water Board and Greenstar Fertilizers Limited for routing of phosphoric acid through Solvent Extraction Plant, Tuticorin and supply of utilities and chemicals.
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2018 8:01PM by PIB Delhi


    An agreement has been entered between Heavy Water Board (HWB) and Greenstar Fertilizers Limited for routing of phosphoric acid through Solvent Extraction Plant, Tuticorin and supply of utilities and chemicals.


    The agreement was signed by Dr. U. Kamachi Mudali, Chief Executive & Chairman, Heavy Water Board and Mr. Sanjay Tanwani, Whole Time Director, Greenstar Fertilizers in presence of Dr. Sekhar Basu, Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission and Secretary, Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India, and senior officials of DAE, HWB and Greenstar at Anushakti Bhavan, Mumbai on 14.09.2018.


    Heavy Water Board, a constituent unit of DAE, has diversified its activities and is pursuing bulk production of various special materials required for DAE. This includes Nuclear Grade Solvents, Enriched Boron Compounds, Nuclear Grade Sodium and D Labeled compounds.


    Greenstar Fertilizers Limited is a leading manufacturer and marketer of fertilizers in India. Greenstar manufactures phosphatic fertilizers at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu. The company is also a brand launch platform for organic and inorganic fertilizers that stand up to its tough quality certification process. Greenstar also imports fertilizers for sale in India. A public company since July 2011, Greenstar has acquired the phosphatics manufacturing assets of SPIC, an enduring fertilizer brand in India, bringing it a significant strength in phosphatics.


    The agreement will enable recovery and extraction of rare material from phosphoric acid using solvent extraction process developed by HWB based on the in-house solvents produced by HWB. The rare material extracted form phosphoric acid will be further processed by units of DAE and will be useful for India's nuclear programme.


    .


    *****


    BB/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1546446) Visitor Counter : 688