      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President embarks on three-nation visit to Serbia, Malta and Romania
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2018 12:44PM by PIB Delhi


      The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu embarked today on a three-nation visit to Serbia, Malta and Romania on a weeklong trip from September 14 -21. He is scheduled to interact with the heads of states of all the three countries and witness the signing of MOUs. As the Chairman of Rajya Sabha, he scheduled to hold delegation level talks with his counterparts and address their respective Parliaments.


      The Vice President's visit is expected to strengthen India’s bilateral relations with these three countries. This visit will help the countries to exchange expertise and share knowledge in the fields of economy, environment, trade and culture.


      The Vice President departed from New Delhi today and will reach Belgrade, Serbia and will address the Indian Diaspora the same evening.


      The Vice President will attend the official Welcome Ceremony hosted by Serbia on Saturday and proceed to Serbia Palace to hold Tête-à-tête meeting with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksander Vucic. Both the leaders will witness signing of MOUs and release commemorative stamps on Nikola Tesla and Swami Vivekananda. A joint press statement will follow the event.


      The Vice President is also scheduled to attend India-Serbia Business Forum meet and later join the banquet hosted by Mr. Aleksander Vucic. The Vice President will hold delegation level talks with the Speakers of the National Assembly of Republic of Serbia Mrs. Maja Gajkovic and later address the special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - the same venue where Former Prime Minister, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru addressed NAM Summit in 1961, before attending the presentation on the Belgrade Waterfront Project.


      On Sunday, September 16, 2018. The Vice President will offer floral tributes at the Bust of Mahatma Gandhi and proceed to Mt. Avala to the wreath laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. Later the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ana Branbic shall host lunch. He will depart for Malta.


      The Vice President of India will attend the Indian Community reception hosted by the High Commissioner of India to Malta on his arrival in the evening in Malta.


      On September 17, the Vice President will hold delegation level talks with the President of Malta, Ms. Marie-Louise Coleiro Preca and witness signing of MOUs on mutual cooperation before attending the lunch hosted by the President of Malta.


      The Vice President of India who is also the Chairman of Rajya Sabha will participate in a meeting with the speaker of the House of Representatives of Malta, Dr. Anglu Farrugia and hold delegation level talks. He will also hold delegation level talks with the acting Prime Minister of Malta, Mr. Evarist Bartolo. Later in the evening, he is scheduled to attend India- Malta Business Forum Meeting where President of Malta shall also participate.


      On Tuesday, the September 18, 2018, the Vice President will visit two import places in the city - the Co Cathedral of St. John’s in Valletta and the Upper Barrakka Gardens before emplane for Romania.


      In Romania, the Vice President will hold delegation level talks with the President of the Senate of Romania, Mr. Calin Popescu-Tariceanu and witness signing of MOUs. He is scheduled to hold delegation level talks with the President of Romania, Mr. Klaus Werner Lohannis and later proceed to the Parliament to address the members of Senate.


      The Vice President will also hold talks with the Prime Minister of Romania, Mr. Viorica Dancila and the President of The Chamber of Deputies, Mr. Nicolae-Livi Dragnea. He will also interact with the India-Romania Business Forum Meeting. On the last day of his visit, the Vice President will address the Indian community in Romania at a reception hosted by the Ambassador of India to Romania.


      The Vice President will be accompanied by Union Minister of State for Finance, Shri Shiv Pratap Shukla and the Members of Parliament - Shri Prasanna Acharya, MP (Rajya Sabha) Shri Raghav Lakhanpal, MP (Lok Sabha), Ms. Saroj Pandey, MP (Rajya Sabha), Smt. Vijila Sathyananth, MP (Rajya Sabha).

        ***
      AKT/BK/RK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1546114) Visitor Counter : 952
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil