      Vice President's Secretariat

      India and Malta are growing at a steady pace and if work together, both can grow faster: Vice President
      
      India see Malta as one of the most trusted partners within the EU;
      
      Need to bolster our relationship with far more substantive cooperation on the economic, scientific and technological, human resource development fronts;
      
      Both our economies are complementary and technology based;
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2018 7:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that India and Malta are growing at a steady pace and if we can work together, both can certainly grow faster. He was making the joint Press Statement following delegation level talks with the President of Malta, Ms. Marie-Louise Coleiro Preca, at San Anton Palace, Halbalzan, Malta today. The Minister of State for Finance, Shri Shiv Pratap Shukla, the High Commissioner of India to Malta, Shri Rajesh Vaishnaw and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that diplomatic relations between India and Malta were established soon after the independence of Malta and India see Malta as one of the most trusted partners within the EU. He further said that India was one of the first countries to recognize independence of Malta and now, we have taken the decision to open a resident mission in Malta in order to scale up our relationship.


    Saying both economies are complimentary and technology based, the Vice President said that India and Malta need to bolster relationship with far more substantive cooperation on the economic, scientific and technological, human resource development fronts. Malta can take the advantage of India’s highly skilled professionals in the field of IT, financial services, health, pharmaceuticals, transport, freight and tourism, he added.


    The Vice President said that India and Malta have signed three Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) in the field of (i) Maritime Cooperation; (ii) Diplomatic Training; and (iii) Tourism Cooperation. It is a good beginning in creating a modern, enabling framework for enhancing relations between both the countries, he added.


    The Vice President said that both the Governments should work towards facilitating easy mobility of professionals on both sides. I strongly believe this will certainly go a long way in further strengthening the ties and accelerate progress and growth in both our countries, he added.


    The Vice President thanked Malta for the assistance provided in the evacuation of Indians from Libya. He also conveyed his best wishes to the people of our friendly country Malta for the upcoming National Day of Malta.


    Following is the text of Vice President's Press Statement :


    "Your Excellency President Ms Marie-Louise Coleiro Preca, I thank you for your kind words. I am delighted to visit your beautiful country. I take this opportunity to thank you for warm reception and the excellent hospitality extended to me and my delegation.


    Diplomatic relations between our countries were established soon after the independence of Malta.


    Ever since then, our relations have always been warm and friendly and India is very keen to further strengthen bilateral ties. We see Malta as one of our most trusted partners within the EU.


    In order to work more closely with your government towards further strengthening the relationship, we have reopened our resident Mission in Malta.


    India and Malta are growing at a steady pace. If we can work together, we can certainly grow faster.


    Both our economies are complimentary and technology based. We need to bolster our relationship with far more substantive cooperation on the economic, scientific and technological, human resource development fronts. You can take the advantage of India’s highly skilled professionals in the field of IT, financial services, health, pharmaceuticals, transport, freight and tourism.


    India today is one of the main sources of affordable generic drugs in the world. Malta can consider collaboration in this sector. We can also cooperate in the use of the ancient sciences of Yoga and Ayurveda to promote wellness. Malta may like to take advantage of India’s advancement in affordable, quality healthcare facilities.


    In this context, the signing of three Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) namely; (i) MoU on Maritime Cooperation between Ministry of Shipping, India and Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Capital Projects, Malta; (ii) MoU on mutual cooperation between the Foreign Service Institute, India and The Mediterranean Academy of Diplomatic Studies, University of Malta, and (iii) MoU in the field of Tourism Cooperation between India and Malta mark a good beginning in creating a modern, enabling framework for enhancing relations between our countries.


    Easier facilitation of visa promotes people-to-people contact and business. Our governments should work towards facilitating easy mobility of professionals on both sides. I strongly believe this will certainly go a long way in further strengthening the ties and accelerate progress and growth in both our countries.


    On behalf of my government, I convey our gratitude to Malta for the assistance provided in the evacuation of Indians from Libya.


    Terrorism is one of the foremost threats to international peace and security. We resolved to fight the scourge of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and agreed to strengthen cooperation in fight against terrorism at various international forums. It is a global challenge that requires a global response.


    We are happy that both our countries have been lending support for each other’s candidates at various multilateral forums.


    I will also be meeting the Hon’ble Speaker of the House of Representative of Malta, Acting Prime Minister and Hon’ble Minister for Economy as well as the Leader of Opposition of Malta. I will also be interacting with India-Malta Business Forum with representatives from both the countries.


    Our meetings, I am confident, will contribute to mutual understanding and help in taking bilateral relations to even higher levels.


    On this occasion I would like to convey my best wishes to people of our friendly country Malta for the upcoming National Day of Malta.


    I would once again like to thank President Ms. Marie-Louise Coleiro Preca for the warm welcome and gracious hospitality. I also extend warm greetings for the progress and prosperity of the people of Malta. India looks forward to cooperation with Malta to further strengthen the traditional bonds of friendship with Malta and its people.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546444) Visitor Counter : 649
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu