      Ministry of Culture

      The President of India launches the logo and web portal for commemoration of 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi
      Posted On: 18 SEP 2018 4:17PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind launched the logo and the web portal ( http://gandhi.gov.in/ ) for commemoration of 150 th birth anniversary of Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, at Rashtrapati Bhawan today. The logo was released in the presence of Minister of State for Culture (Independent Charge) and Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma and Secretary Culture, Shri Arun Goel.


    The logo has been obtained through crowd sourcing. Logo Branding will be done in Trains, Metro Rail, Air India Aircrafts, State Roadways Buses, Government websites, E-mails, Government stationery, calendar and diary, Government advertisements & publicity material, digital signature etc. The logo will also be used by Public Sector Undertakings, subordinate/ attached offices, autonomous bodies etc. under Ministry/ Department of Government of India


    The designs of the logo with colour guide are available on the web-site of https://gandhi.gov.in/download.html for download:-


    i) Logo in original form (Main Logo)


    ii) Logo for use in single colour (for use in black and white)


    iii) Logo in reverse form with light/bright background

     1. Logo in reverse form with dark background

    The salient features of the new web portal are:

     1. to identify visitors from different geography and serve them personalized information;

     1. Organizations & individuals can join celebration and submit their Karyanjali through an easy upload process.


     1. Information related to Gandhian literature, philosophy, audios, videos, rare photos are available in the portal.


    The webportal is participatory in nature and all the participating organizations will be able to upload their activities regarding commemoration on the website. It also has a unique feature Gandhipedia which will be a repository of Gandhian knowledge and will continue to grow with time.


    The two year long celebrations from 2 nd October, 2018 to 02 nd October, 2020 will be held across the country and all over the globe to mark the 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. A meeting of National Committee headed by the President of India was held in May, 2018 to draw out a plan of action for the mega celebration where a total of 92 suggestions were received. Further, a total of 33 suggestions were approved by the Executive Committee headed by the Prime Minister to organize nationwide and worldwide commemoration. Accordingly, all Ministries/Departments of the Government of India and all State/UT Governments have initiated actions pertaining to their Ministries/Departments. These action plans are being uploaded on the web portal.


    (Logo for commemoration of 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi)


    (Home page of Gandhi.gov.in)


    ******


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546510) Visitor Counter : 1398
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil , Malayalam
    
    
    

1.