      Ministry of Tourism

      Tourism Minister launches the ‘Swachhta Hi Seva’ campaign of Tourism Ministry in New Delhi today
      
      Swachhta campaign has brought revolutionary changes in the lives of citizens: Shri K J Alphons

      Posted On: 15 SEP 2018 6:09PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Tourism, Shri K. J Alphons launched the ‘ Swachhta Hi Seva’ campaign by the Tourism Ministry with a cleaning drive near the Sai Mandir surroundings on Lodhi Road, New Delhi today. Addressing the gathering and during interaction with the students of various hospitality institutes under the Ministry, the Minister stressed upon the importance of cleanliness in one’s life. The Minister also said that the Swachhta campaign in the last 4 years has brought revolutionary changes and has helped in reducing pollution which in turn increased the health and survivability of citizens especially children.


    Shri Alphons urged everybody to observe cleanliness as responsible citizens of the country in order to remain healthy and also to provide a memorable, clean and hygienic experience to the tourists while at the same time, to aim for providing a Clean India to our coming generations. The Minister took part in the ‘Shramdaan’ activities done in the area along with students and officials of the Ministry. A Nukkad Natak was also performed by the students on ‘Swachhta hi Seva’ theme.


    The Ministry of Tourism has prepared an Action Plan for carrying out the campaign at various important tourist sites across the country. Cleanliness and awareness activities are to be conducted through Regional offices of the Ministry of Tourism with active participation from local communities, Institutes of the Ministry, State Governments and Stakeholders. An indicative list of locations is given at Annexure.


    In addition, the Ministry is also observing a ‘ Swachhta Pakhwada’ during the period 16 th -- 30 th September, 2018, wherein additional activities will be conducted every day by the Ministry of Tourism (MoT) as well as all the institutions under the Ministry.


    Click here to see Annexure


    ****


    NB/JP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546235) Visitor Counter : 471