      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Plogging Should be a Way of Life: Durga Shankar Mishra
      
      Housing Ministry Officials Undertakes Plogging In Delhi

      Posted On: 22 SEP 2018 12:49PM by PIB Delhi

    In an early morning initiative for making our cities clean and motivate people to adopt Swachhta as a way of life, more than 300 officials from the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, NDMC, NBCC, CPWD, HPL and other entities under the Ministry took part in a plogging exercise here today. More than 2 hours long exercise was led by Sh Durga Shankar Mishra, Secretary, M/O Housing and Urban affairs which started from Janpath market area and culminated near Shastri Bhawan, also motivated scores of bystanders, onlookers, taxi drivers, vendors and morning walkers to join in this unique exercise.


    More than 500 filled packets of garbage including broken bottles, ice cream and gutkha wrappers, cups, packets, etc were collected as part of the exercise. Sh Mishra used the opportunity to also talk to the people who gathered on adopting Plogging as a way of exercise and suggested that it can be undertaken as a way of routine to ensure a clean and garbage free city. The event was organised as part of Prime Ministers initiative of “Swachhata Hi Sewa” by the Ministry today. Several members of the NGO, CFAR also participated in the event.


    Sh. Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary - MoHUA, encouraged everyone to take up plogging as a regular initiative. He said that picking up the litter should be carried out simultaneously with walking or jogging. “Self-littering should not be done and all the waste and litter should always be thrown in a dustbin nearby.” he added. Sh. Mishra also encouraged several shopkeepers on the way to take responsibility for throwing the waste in garbage bins only.


    Enthused by the tremendous response, it has been decided that the next plogging drive will be carried out on 30 th September, 2018 from Nehru Park, Chankyapuri to Yashwant place in New Delhi. About 300 students from Sharda Vakil School of Art and National Centre for Arts will also be roped in as volunteers on the occasion.


    RJ/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546937) Visitor Counter : 679
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil