      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Vishwakarma Rashtriya Puraskar & National Safety Awards-2016 ceremony on September 17, 2018
      
      28 Vishwakarma Rashtriya Puraskar to be awarded
      
      128 National Safety Awards to be given under twelve schemes

      Posted On: 14 SEP 2018 12:59PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of Sate (I/C) for Labour and Employment will give away Vishwakarma Rashtriya Puraskar (VRP) and National Safety Awards (NSA) for the performance year 2016 at Dr. Ambedkar International Center, New Delhi on Monday September 17, 2018.


    The Ministry of Labour & Employment has been operating the “Vishwakarma Rashtriya Puraskar” (Previously known as Shram Vir National Awards) and “National Safety awards” since 1965. These Award schemes are operated by the technical wing of the Ministry, namely the Directorate General Factory Advice Service & Labour Institutes (DGFASLI), Mumbai – an attached office of the Ministry of Labour & Employment. DGFASLI renders technical advice/service to workers, their representatives and managements in factories and docks to make the industrial activities safe and to promote workers’ health & well-being.


    VRP is awarded in recognition of outstanding suggestions given by a worker or group of workers and implemented by the management during the previous calendar year resulting improvement in quality, productivity and working conditions such as safety, health and environmental conservation in the industrial undertakings where “Suggestion Schemes” are in operation.


    28 VRP awarded will be given in the form of cash prize and a certificate of merit in three categories: Five Awards of Rs. 75,000/- will be given in Class ‘A’, Eight Awards of Rs. 50,000/- in Class ‘B’ and Fifteen Awards of Rs. 25,000/- will be given in class ‘C’ categories.


    The NSA is given in recognition of outstanding safety performance of industrial establishments, construction sites, ports and installations under Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB) to stimulate and maintain the interests of both the management and the workers in accident prevention programmes. The awards are given under twelve schemes, out of which ten are meant for Factories /Construction sites /Installations under AERB and two are for Ports. Under each award, a Shield and a Certificate of Merit is given to each of the Award Winners and Runners-up. The establishments are classified in different schemes on the basis of working of highest man-hours. For the performance year-2016 a total of 128 Awards will be given which include 76 winners and 52 runner-ups.


    The award presentation Ceremony for Vishwakarma Rashtriya Puraskar (VRP) & National Safety Awards (NSA) is held every year on the occasion of Vishwakarma day on September 17 th . Awardees, representatives of the various industrial undertakings, invitees and senior Government officials will attend the function.


    ****


    SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546115) Visitor Counter : 1830
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil