      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      DCBO to be Opened in each District of the Country in Phased Manner- Santosh Gangwar
      
      ESIC “Chinta Se Mukti” Mobile App Now on Umang Platform

      Posted On: 17 SEP 2018 6:16PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Union Minister of State (I/C) for Labour & Employment, participated in “Swachhata Hi Sewa Movement” at ESIC Model Hospital & Post Graduate Institute of Medical Science and Research (PGIMSR), Basaidarapur, New Delhi today.


    Shri Gangwar announced that Dispensary Cum-Branch Office ( DCBO) is being started in 29 districts. Gradually, it will be extended in the entire country. The DCBOs will be set up in every district to make presence of primary care services, irrespective of whether a district has already a State run Dispensary in that area.


    He further informed that DCBO will perform the functions of both dispensary and branch office. Generally these are two separate units but in case of a DCBO, these will act as single unit providing Patient Services and cash benefit payments under one roof besides providing medicines to patient attending DCBO. DCBO will also distribute medicines to Insurance Medical Practitioner (IMP) and Employer Utility Dispensary (EUD) referred patients and will make referrals for secondary care, payment of bills of empanelled chemist/diagnostic center and to provide IT help care services to IPs/employers. It will reimburse the m edical reimbursement claim bills of beneficiaries of medicines and lab bills outside the approved list of medicines and lab tests prescribed by the modified EUD and modified IMP/IMP. Full establishment and operational cost of DCBO would be borne by ESIC and the concerned State would not be bearing any expenditure under this head.


    Shri Gangwar also informed that now ESIC “Chinta Se Mukti“ mobile app is available on UMANG platform of Govt. of India. With this app, the Insured Persons can view their contribution history, personal profile, claim status and also their entitlement to benefits. Grievances can also be lodged through this app. Besides, Insured Persons can also view knowledge bank on health topics and audio-visuals on benefits under ESI Scheme.


    Officials of Ministry of Labour & Employment, ESIC and Insured Persons & beneficiaries of ESI Scheme also observed ‘Swachhata Hi Sewa Movement’. The Minister said that cleanliness is godliness and reiterated the importance of cleanliness to prevent diseases. Shri Gangwar also planted saplings and took round of ESIC Hospital and inspected the construction work going on there.


    ****


    SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546409) Visitor Counter : 703