      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojna Rolled Out
      
      Relaxation in the Eligibility Conditions for Availing Super Specialty Treatment
      
      Enhancement in Funeral Expenses
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2018 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


    The ESI Corporation during its 175 th Meeting held yesterday in New Delhi under the Chairmanship of Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Union Minister of State for Labour & Employment(I/C) has taken some very important decisions towards improvements in its services and benefits being provided to Insured Persons and their dependants.


    Considering the change in employment pattern and the current scenario of employment in India which has transformed from a long term employment to fixed short term engagement in the form of contract and temping, the ESI Corporation has approved a Scheme named “ ATAL BIMIT VYAKTI KALYAN YOJNA ” for Insured Persons (IP) covered under the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948. This scheme is a relief payable in cash directly to their Bank Account in case of unemployment and while they search for new engagement. Detailed instructions including eligibility conditions, application format, etc. will be issued separately.


    ESI Corporation has approved the proposal for reimbursement of Rs. 10/- per person to the employers to encourage the seeding of Aadhar (UID) in ESIC database of their workers and their family members. It will curtail the multiple registrations of same Insured Persons and thus enable them to avail the benefits requiring longer contributory conditions.


    ESI Corporation has approved the proposal for relaxing the eligibility conditions for availing Super Specialty treatment has now been relaxed from earlier insurable employment of 2 years to 06 months with contribution requirement of only 78 days. Besides, the eligibility for availing Super Specialty treatment for dependents of Insured Person has now been relaxed to insurable employment of one year with 156 days of contributions. This relaxation will immensely help the Insured Persons and their beneficiaries to avail Super Specialty treatment free of cost as per revised eligibility.


    ESI Corporation has approved the proposal for increasing the Funeral Expenses from existing Rs. 10,000/- to Rs. 15,000/- being paid on the death of Insured Person.


    Shri Heera Lal Samariya, Secretary, Labour and Employment, ESI Corporation Members representing, Members of Parliament, Employees’ & Employers’ Federation/Association representatives of State Governments and Senior officials of the Ministry were also present in the meeting.


    ****


    SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546717) Visitor Counter : 3091
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil