      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Prime Minister lays foundation stone of Convention centre in New Delhi
      Posted On: 20 SEP 2018 7:17PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister laying the foundation stone of IICC


    The Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, today laid the foundation stone for India International Convention and Expo Centre (IICC) at Dwarka, New Delhi. Speaking on the occasion the Prime Minister said that the IICC will reflect India’s economic progress, rich cultural heritage and its consciousness towards protection of the environment. He said it is a part of the Government’s vision to give importance to world class infrastructure, and ease of doing business.


    The Prime Minister stated that smaller countries have world class conference facilities due to which they have become conference tourist hubs. Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, said that with the construction of IICC, India is moving in the director of developing eco-system of conference tourism in the country. This convention centre will be a mini city within Delhi with expo, meetings, markets, offices and recreation centres at a single place. Prime Minister further stated that the IICC will give a new identity to India in the sphere of meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE) which is a multibillion business.


    The Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, said that the country has witnessed all round development during the last 4 years as the government kept the national interest as the top priority. He said a country develops only when decisions are taken at the right time and they are implemented without any delay. He also said that the NDA Government took tough decisions during last 50 months in the national interest and this trend will continue. The Government is moving ahead with a target to make India a 5 trillion Dollar economy in next 7 years.


    Union Minister of Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation, Suresh Prabhu, in his address said that the convention centre is of global standards. He further said that the IICC project is in line with the Prime Minister’s vision of New India which is to do not only what is best in India but also do it better than anywhere else in the world.


    The Commerce Minister said that the proposed exhibition centre, convention centre and multi-performance arena developments are estimated to generate over 5 lakh employment opportunities for the people. This job creation will not be limited to core IICC facilities, but it will have a multiplier effect of direct and indirect spending and entail opportunities for regular formal employment in supporting IICC land uses like retail, office and hospitality.


    Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs (I/C), Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, C. R. Chaudhary, Secretary, DIPP, Ramesh Abhishek, senior officials, industry leaders and diplomats were present on the occasion.


    ***


    MM/ SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1546879) Visitor Counter : 691