      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDMA holds workshop on application of GIS in disaster management
      
      To help participants effectively utilise geo-information tools

      Posted On: 19 SEP 2018 6:56PM by PIB Delhi

    The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) is conducting a two-day training-cum-workshop programme on ‘Application of GIS (Geographic Information System) in Disaster Management’ here today. The training programme aims to help participants develop skills for effectively utilising the geo-information tools for disaster management.


    A total of 19 representatives from 12 States, UTs and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are participating in the training programme which will enable them to understand the need, role and scope of web-based GIS service for management of disasters more efficiently and effectively through an integrated platform. Experts from NDMA, Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS), National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI), Teri University and ESRI will train the participants on various aspects of geo-information tools.


    Speaking during the inaugural session, Dr. D. N. Sharma, Member, NDMA, underlined the importance of quantifying risks in a qualitative manner through geo-spatial tools to reduce disaster losses. He added that this workshop would serve as the first step towards integrating and sharing of GIS database on one platform by different stakeholders. In a post-disaster situation, critical decision-making depends on quality geospatial information and there is a need to make it authoritative so that all stakeholders are able to use the same information and ensure a unified response to any given situation.


    NDMA is working towards integrating geospatial data for research, mitigation and post disaster management. This system will help the Centre as well as State Governments, local bodies, civil societies and other stakeholders to handle the complete disaster cycle in an effective and efficient manner.


    ******


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546753) Visitor Counter : 480