      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Coordination, Cooperation and flawless Intelligence sharing among North-Eastern States for security of North East: MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju
      
      Level of violence and causality figures in the region have come down by more than 50 percent, says Shri Rijiju
      
      25 th Conference of DsGP/IsGP and Heads of Central Police Organisations (CPOs) of NE region begins in Itanagar

      Posted On: 13 SEP 2018 5:40PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju has stressed the importance of seamless Coordination and Intelligence sharing among the Security Forces in North Eastern States to ensure security of the region. He was addressing the delegates at the 25 th Conference of DsGP/IsGP and Heads of Central Police Organisations (CPOs) of the North-Eastern Region in Itanagar today. While complimenting the forces for successfully handling the complex issues over the years leading to improved security scenario in the region, Shri Rijiju said that security issues and policing in North Eastern States are unique and challenging because the whole region is bordered by neighbouring countries.


    He said due to its geographical situation and exposure to International Border, the region has to deal with not only internal but external issues also. Shri Rijiju lauded the role played by State Police of North Eastern States and the consistent support by Central Police Forces for maintaining law and order situation in the region. The Minister emphasised Coordination, Cooperation and flawless Intelligence sharing are crucial aspects for security. He said security situation in the North Eastern states has improved significantly in last four and half years and the level of violence and causality figures in the region have come down by more than 50 percent.


    Further he said the Assam Rifles Academy at Diphu (Karbi Anglong district, Assam) has been identified for specialised training of North East police in counter-insurgency operations and NIA has been conducting training modules for North East police for investigation of terror related cases.


    In his inaugural address, Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh, Shri Pema Khandu urged the police chiefs to take steps to ensure regular informal talks among senior police officers of inter-State border districts to deal with the concerns of people of border areas.


    Director General of Police, Arunachal Pradesh Shri SBK Singh and Additional Director, Intelligence Bureau Shri AK Mishra also spoke on this occasion.


    The two-day conference of Police and Intelligence officers is being attended by DsGP and senior police officers from North East States, senior officers from Central Police Organisations and Intelligence Bureau. The West Bengal Police Department is also taking part in the conference.


    ******


    BB/SPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546015) Visitor Counter : 746