      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Tree plantation and Cleanliness drive done at Electronics & IT ministry
      
      CSC’s and NIC have become a vital cog in the digitalisation of Bharat: IT Minister

      Posted On: 17 SEP 2018 12:52PM by PIB Delhi

    As part of ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa movement’, Union Minister of Electronics & IT and Law & Justice, Sh. Ravi Shankar Prasad today initiated a cleanliness drive in the Ministry of Electronics & IT at Electronics Niketan. IT minister stressed on the fact that Swachh Bharat mission launched in October 2014 has today become a mass movement. Sh. Prasad asked ministry officials to emulate the success of Digital India in making physical India cleans and to dedicate 2 Hrs per week voluntarily for cleanliness. A tree plantation drive was also done in the Ministry premises by IT minister and other ministry officials.


    Briefing on the sidelines of the event IT minister highlighted that today institutions like CSC, NIC, etc. have become critical to the overall governance paradigm. The minister stressed upon the fact that today there are nearly 3.05 lakh Common Service Centres across the country serving 2.6 lakh gram panchayats. Sh. Prasad also appreciated the critical role NIC is playing in bridging the urban rural digital divide, taking Digital India to villages and reaching the unreached.


    The Common Services Centres (CSC) Scheme is an integral part of “Digital India” initiative of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India. The CSCs are ICT enabled front end service delivery points at the village level enabling delivery of Government, Financial, Social and Private Sector services in the areas of agriculture, health, education, entertainment, FMCG products, banking, insurance, pension, utility payments, etc. CSCs are managed and operated by a village level entrepreneur (VLE).


    NNK/GK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546311) Visitor Counter : 666
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil