      Ministry of Culture

      Dr. Mahesh Sharma releases National Museum Research Bulletin, published after a gap of 16 years
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2018 6:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Culture (Independent Charge) and Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma released two important publications of the National Museum (M/o Culture), Sindhu Ghati Sabhyata:Ek Parichay (Hindi) and the National Museum Research Bulletin Number 10 : Special issue (In House Publication), in New Delhi today. The National Museum Research Bulletin has been revived after a long gap of 16 years.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Sharma congratulated the efforts of National Museum to revive the research bulletin which he said will help to generate awareness about the activities of National Museum. Dr. Mahesh Sharma said that although India is a country of diversity, it is bound together by its strong cultural heritage. New discoveries are continuously taking place about our past and new additions are being made to history which must be brought before the people, especially the youth, the Minister explained. He further added that the publications like those brought out by the National Museum have a big role to play in this direction.


    The Director General, National Museum, Dr. B. R. Mani in his message said that the research bulletin will now renew the interest of the people and inspire them to have engaging conversations about the National Museums pivotal role in public sphere.


    The National Museum Research Bulletin No.10 : Special issue has a number of research paper that highlight the collection, display and education aspect that the National Museum engages with. The research bulletin is also illustrated by colored photographs, some of which belong to the Reserve collection of the National Museum, hence making the bulletin appealing to a wider audience. This research bulletin has been revived this time after a long gap of 16 years under the guidance of the Director General, Dr B.R. Mani, who is also the Editorial -In-Chief of the Bulletin.


    Sindhu Ghati Sabhyata : Ek Parichay is a Hindi version of An Introduction To Indus Valley Civilization which among the bestsellers at the National Museum. Co-authored by Dr. Sanjib Kumar Singh (Head Publication Department, National Museum) and Dr, Gunjan Srivastava(Deputy Superintending Archeologist, ASI) and Shri Rajesh Kumar( Hindi Translator, National Museum), this book throws light on the splendor of the Indus Valley Civilization. The book is an important contribution to the field as most works on the subject are restricted to the English Language and this version will particularly help the vernacular readers.


    Both the publications will be available for sale at the National Museum Reception Counter and will benefit students, scholars, artists, historians, museum professionals and art lovers among other readers


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546411) Visitor Counter : 580