      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      MoS Dr Jitendra Singh to inaugurate the All India Pension Adalat and give away Anubhav Awards on Tuesday
      
      600 retiring Central Government employees to participate in Pre-Retirement Counselling Workshop

      Posted On: 17 SEP 2018 1:29PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh will inaugurate the All India Pension Adalat here tomorrow.


    The Pension Adalat, being organised by the Department of Pension & Pensioners Welfare (DoP&PW), will be one of the largest exercises for Pensioners’ Welfare ever undertaken by the Government as part of Good Governance dedicated to Central Government Pensioners. It is a unique effort wherein on a single day all the Central Government Ministries would be conducting their respective Pension Adalats in which on-the-spot resolution would be provided across the table to the grievance holder.


    All the stakeholders of the pensioner’s case viz. the Department, Pay and Account Officer, the concerned Bank, along with the pensioner or his representative, will settle the grievance within the framework of extant rules. This is a great reformative measure to get the grievances resolved in the quickest possible way by avoiding unnecessary recourse by the pensioners to Courts.


    It is expected that this measure will resolve issues of thousands of pensioners in one day, in a single sitting across the country. In addition to the Central Ministries, the Offices of Accountant General would be separately addressing the Pensioner grievances of All-India Service officers, in all the states across the country.


    Besides the Pension Adalat, a Pre-Retirement Counselling (PRC) is also scheduled for the Central Government employees who are about to retire in the next six months. 600 retiring Central Government employees will participate in this PRC out of which a significant number will also be from the Central Armed Police Forces. The objective of the PRC Workshop is to create awareness about post-retirement entitlements as well as to educate them on advance planning for retirement including medical facilities and participation in voluntary activities after retirement.


    On the occasion, Dr. Jitendra Singh will also give away the Anubhav Awards-2018 to recognise the contribution of the Central Government employees to the Anubhav Portal which is designed to create an institutional memory for successive generations of Central Government employees. It may be recalled that the Anubhav scheme had been instituted at the call of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in the year 2015. This is meant to encourage retiring and retired employees to submit an account of their experiences while working in the government and thereby create an institutional memory to help in future governance as well as to motivate and inspire different generations of government officials in their respective assignments. The scheme has resulted in registering more than 5,000 Anubhavs from Government employees till date from 91 Departments.


    ******


    BB/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1546322) Visitor Counter : 850
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Tamil