      Ministry of Tourism

      Tourism Ministry organizes ‘Swachhta Hi Seva’ activities across the country
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2018 3:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism is organizing the ‘Swachhta Hi Seva’ campaign at various important tourist sites across the country from 15 th September to 2 nd October 2018. On these days, cleanliness and awareness activities are being conducted through Regional offices of the Tourism Ministry with active participation from local communities, Institutes of the Ministry, State Governments and Stakeholders. The campaigns are being popularized at 47 tourism sites in the country including all tourism Iconic sites. Following are some of the major Swachhta activities carried out from 15th to 17th September 2018 at various tourist sites across the county:-


    15th September 2018


    DighaliPukhuri, Guwahati: Swachhta Hi Seva campaign launched at DighaliPukhuri, Guwahati by Indiatourism Guwahati in association with Assam Tourism Department Corporation. Students of IHM also performed a street play (Nukkad Natak) for spreading awareness among public on cleanliness.


    Indian Museum, Kolkata: Indiatourism Kolkata in association with Indian Museum, IHM Kolkata and members from travel trade including guides undertook Swachhta Hi Seva cleanliness drive in and around Indian Museum and Sadder street.


    Porbander, Gujarat: Indiatourism Mumbai launched the Swachhta Hi Seva campaign from Iconic site of Porbandar, the birth place of Mahatma Gandhi. The Prabhatpheribegan from KirtiMandir with over 300 school children, travel trade members, Swachhta workers and local administration team participated and the cleanliness drive culminated at Porbandar Beach front with the cleaning of the beach.


    Western Group of Temples Khajuraho, MP : A Tour guides heritage walk for tourists & students and Swachhta awareness rally was organized for locals at Iconic monument by Indiatourism Indore.


    Tipu Sultan Palace, Bengaluru : India Tourism Bengaluru in close collaborationwith IHM Bengaluruundertook the cleanliness drive at Tipu Sultan Palace, Bengaluru.


    Mamallapuram Shore Temple and Beach, Tamil Nadu : Cleanliness activity was undertaken by Indiatourism Chennai and students of IHM Chennai at Mahabalipuram. Sensitization drive on cleanliness was also organized for the local shopkeepers along with Tourist Police. All the above events were organized in co-ordination of Tamil Nadu Tourism Department.


    16th September 2018


    Elliots Beach, Chennai: Indiatourism Chennai and IHM Chennai jointly undertook the cleanliness activities at Elliots beach behind AsthaLaxmiTemple and Velankanni Church.


    Golconda Fort, Hyderabad: Indiatourism Hyderabad and ASI Hyderabad jointly organized a Swachhta drive at Golconda Fort with Indiatourism staff, guides and ASI staff.


    Lingaraj Temple, Bhubaneswar: Swachhta Hi Seva campaign organized at Lingaraj Temple, foreign and local tourists also joined in cleanliness drive.


    Victoria Memorial, Kolkata: Indiatourism Kolkata in association with IHM Kolkata, Victoria Memorial, IATO, ADTOI and HRAEI organized a Heritage walk from Victoria Memorial to Indian Museum cleanliness activities were undertaken at Victoria memorial and India Museum.


    17th September, 2018


    Dona Paula Jetty & View Point, Goa : A cleanliness drive undertaken by Institute of Water sports Goa at Dona Paula Jetty & View point by the students of IITTM, Gwalior.


    Gwalior Railway Station : Swachhta Hi Seva campaign was organized by 45 IHM students in association with Railway staff members of GRP at Gwalior Railway station.


    Gandhi Ghat on River Ganga, Patna: Indiatourism Patna with tourism stakeholders organized cleanliness drive at Gandhi Ghat. A stretch of 500 mtrs. Ghat area was cleaned by the participants and awareness created among locals.


    Gwalior Fort, MP: Indiatourism Indore organized a Heritage walk and awareness campaign for tourists and shop keepers in association with Taj Usha Kiran Palace Hotel at Gwalior Fort.


    *****


    NB/JP/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546658) Visitor Counter : 623
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil