      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President of India thanks Romania for agreeing to take lead to re-start negotiations on India-EU-BTIA
      
      Complements Romania for deciding to open a Consulate in Chennai;
      
      Opens Ayush Information cell in Romania;
      
      Welcomes Romania's support to India's aspiration to be on the UN Security Council;
      
      Agrees to convey Romanian's Prime Minister's invitation to Indian Prime Minister
      
      Makes joint Press Statement with Prime Minister of Romania
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2018 9:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has thanked Romania for agreeing to take lead to re-start negotiations on India-EU-BTIA. He was making a Joint Press Statement following delegations level talks with the Prime Minister of Romania, Ms. Viorica Dancila, in Bucharest, Romania today. The Minister of State for Finance, Shri Shiv Pratap Shukla and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that he was happy to visit Romania at a highly opportune time coinciding with completion of 70 years in diplomatic relations between two nations. It also overlaps with the celebration of centenary year of Romania, he added.


    Saying that his discussions with the prime minister were fruitful, the Vice President said that they focused on strengthening trade and investment relationship covering sectors such as ICT, pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, infrastructure, logistics, agri-foods, tourism. He further said that they intend to deepen and diversify economic and technological cooperation between two countries. India-Romania annual bilateral trade has risen to US $ 810 million in 2017-18, a 40% increase over last year (USD 575 million) which is a positive development, he added.


    The Vice President acknowledged and admired the strong acceptance of Ayurveda, a traditional system of Medicine amongst Romanians. He further said that Government of India has decided to open an Ayush Information cell in Romania to disseminate more information about Ayurveda, encourage Ayurveda practice.


    The Vice President said that easier facilitation of visa promotes people-to-people contact and business. Our governments should work towards facilitating easy mobility of professionals on both sides. I am glad that Romania has decided to open a Consulate in Chennai.


    The Vice President said that Terrorism is one of the foremost threats to international peace and security. We resolved to fight terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. It is a global challenge that requires a global response, he added.


    The Vice President said that he will convey the Prime Minister's invitation to the India's Prime Minister to visit Romania. He also invited the Romanian Prime Minister to visit India. India looks forward to cooperation with Romania to further strengthen the traditional bonds of friendship with Romania and its people, he added.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546789) Visitor Counter : 630