      Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs

      Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal distributes Prizes for 14th National Youth Parliament Competition, 2017-18 for University and Colleges
      
      Shri Meghwal administers ‘Swachhata Pledge’, taken by the gathering

      Posted On: 20 SEP 2018 5:16PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation presided over the Prize Distribution Function for the 14th National Youth Parliament Competition, 2017-18 for University and Colleges, held here today.


    Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs has been organizing Youth Parliament Competitions in Universities and Colleges since 1997-98. Under this scheme, the 14 th Competition in the series was organized during 2017-18 among 74institutions all over India.


    The Youth Parliament Scheme aims at acquainting the young generation with the practice and procedures of Parliament, techniques of discussion and debate; developing leadership qualities, spirit of self-discipline, tolerance of diverse opinions and healthy competition; inculcating among youth the art and skill of effective oratory, righteous expression of views and other virtues of a democratic way of life in them— all of which are the hallmark of a democracy.


    Addressing the students, Shri Meghwal gave his valuable inputs to the students about the important nuances of manners and etiquettes of the members and conduct of business in the Parliament,quoting from actual instances of important parliamentary debates of the likes of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Smt. Sushma Swaraj. The Minister appreciated the performance of the winning team and said that these students definitely have the capability to join politics and take part in the growth of the Nation. The Minister noted that these students are very lucky to have a close experience about the conduct of business in the Parliament in their student life because of the National Youth Parliament Scheme run by the Government.On the occasion, the Minister administered the ‘Swachhata Pledge’ to the gathering.


    Shri Meghwal distributed prizes to students and institutions for their meritorious performance in the competition. On this occasion, the students of DAV College, Jalandhar, received the Running Parliamentary Shield and Trophy for standing first in the competition. The College presented a short sitting of "Youth Parliament" during the event. Further, the following Universities/Colleges were awarded Merit trophies for standing first in their respective groups:


     1. Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, New Delhi

     2. Raksha Shakti University, Ahmedabad
     3. Central University of Punjab, Bhatinda
     4. Maharaja Agrasen College, New Delhi
     5. Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala
     6. Shivaji University, Kolhapur
     7. Sardar Patel University of Police, Security & Criminal Justice, Jodhpur
     8. University of Mumbai
     9. Guru Ghasidas Vishwavidyalaya, Bilaspur
    10. Chanakya National Law University, Patna
    11. Jadhavpur University, Kolkata
    12. University of Jammu, Jammu
    13. Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya, Indore
    14. Nanaji Deshmukh Veterinary Science & AH, Jabalpur

    Other dignitaries present on the occasion were Shri S.N. Tripathi, Secretary (Parliamentary Affairs) and other senior dignitaries along with teachers, students and their parents.


    *****


    KSP/VM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1546825) Visitor Counter : 473
    
    
    
    
    

14.