      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Prime Minister to lay foundation stone of world class Convention centre in New Delhi
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2018 12:16PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, will lay the foundation stone of India International Convention and Expo Centre (IICC) in New Delhi, tomorrow. The IICC is being developed as a state of the art centre to promoteMeetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE) activities to attract and promote business and industry for growth of industrial development in the country. The project is planned over an area of 221.37 acres in Sector 25 Dwarka, New Delhi,at an estimated cost of Rs.25,703 crores.


    The facilities provided at the centre will be on par with the best in the world in size and quality, offering setting for international and national events, meetings, conferences, exhibitions and trade shows. It will rank among the top 10 in the world and the biggest indoor exhibition space in India. Apart from giving boost to business and industry it is also expected to generate over 5 lakh employment opportunities.


    IICC will be an integrated complex with a host of mutually beneficial facilities like exhibition halls, convention centre (comprising plenary hall, ball room and meeting rooms), a multi-purpose arena, open exhibition spaces, mixed use commercial spaces like star hotels (5,4 and 3 star), retail services and high-end offices.


    The facilities are designed with sustainable approaches in planning and design, transportation, alternative energy production, energy conservation, water resource management, solid waste management, efficient land use, eco-friendly building design to create cost-effective and measurable savings for the project. The construction will be in line with green building principles and Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) Platinum rating standards.


    Over 40% of the area is planned to be developed as open and green area with a total built up area of 10.70 lakh square metres (sqm) comprising of convention centre which can accommodate 11,000 persons, 5 exhibition halls, 1-kilometre long foyer, multi-purpose arena with retractable roof, to accommodate 20,000 persons, 3/4/5 star hotels with 3500 rooms, office space and commercial and retail space.


    The project will be developed in two phases. Phase-I will be completed by December 2019 with convention centre and two exhibition halls with adjoining foyer and related support facilities. Phase-II will be completed by December 2024 with construction of 3 exhibition complexes, arena, metro connectivity, hotels, retail and office space. The project complex will have a dedicated underground Metro station which will be an extension of the airport high speed metro corridor and is being constructed by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation.


    The complete project will be delivered through two distinct models. Exhibition and convention centre including the trunk infrastructure will be with investment by IICC Ltd. and the entire mixed-use infrastructure including hotels, retail, commercial/office and arena will be developed through private investment. It is expected to host more than 100 national and international events every year.


    The project is being implemented by India International Convention and Exhibition Centre Limited (IICC Ltd.), a 100% Government owed company set up by Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP). It is connected through Dwarka Expressway and Urban Extension Road II and is about 11 kms from the Delhi International Airport.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546607) Visitor Counter : 897
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil