      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Swachchta hi Sewa: New Health Ministry initiative with private hospitals
      
      NABH to adopt Kayakalp parameters of hygiene and cleanliness

      Posted On: 19 SEP 2018 4:05PM by PIB Delhi

    Encouraged by the achievements of Kayakalp Scheme, National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH) has decided to consider assessment of healthcare facilities in the private sector on the lines of parameters of Kayakalp Scheme. This is also an initiative as part of the Swachchta hi Sewa cleanliness and sanitation campaign being undertaken across various parts of the country.


    Cleanliness and hygiene in hospitals besides being critical for preventing infections also provide the patients and visitors with a positive experience and encourages moulding behaviour related to cleanliness and sanitation at their homes and work-place. Clean & bright environment where patients are received with dignity & respect, along with delivery of prompt care go a long way in promoting faster healing and enhanced satisfaction of patients. To complement this effort, the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India has launched “Kayakalp” in the year 2015 with initiative to recognise such efforts under ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan’.


    With above initiative of the Government, the Healthcare Facilities in the Public sector have been competing with each other to attain highest levels of cleanliness and hygiene in their respective facilities. The initiative has resulted in bringing significant improvement in the sanitation and hygiene, patient satisfaction, behavioural change in the staff & employees of the Hospitals/Institutions, patients and their attendants towards cleanliness. Public perception towards cleanliness & hygiene in public healthcare facilities has also been changing. Besides, public healthcare facilities have also given focused attention on promoting activities like Green Initiatives to reduce carbon footprint by encouraging Public Sector Hospitals to undertake Energy Conservation, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities, horticulture & landscaping, optimal skill based training of sanitation employees and capacity building, celebration of Swachhta Pakhwada, Swachhta hi Sewa Campaign across all the public sector health care facilities every year. The Health Ministry will recognise the outstanding work done by the private hospitals on an annual basis.


    *****


    MV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1546680) Visitor Counter : 803
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Tamil