      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Col Rajyavardhan Rathore Launches All India Radio Streaming Services on Amazon Alexa Smart Speakers
      
      Indian Diaspora Around the World Will Benefit From this Initiative: Col. Rathore
      
      Posted On: 28 SEP 2018 5:23PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Information & Broadcasting and Sports & Youth Affairs Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore (Retd.) launched All India Radio’s Streaming Services on Amazon’s Alexa Smart Speakers here today. Chairman Prasar Bharati Shri A Surya Prakash, CEO Prasar Bharati Dr Shashi Shekhar Vempati, Shri Rajiv Sawhney, Principal Tech Business Development, Amazon Alexa (Asia) and other senior officials of the Ministry were also present at the event.


    Speaking on the occasion, Col Rathore said that Services like Amazon Alexa have eased the life of a person. Launching of All India Radio’s Streaming Services on Amazon’s Alexa platform would be a synergy of Old and Modern forms of Communication. He also said that this initiative will benefit Indian diaspora around the world. Now anyone from any part of the world can listen to the programmes in All India Radio.


    Shri Surya Prakash informed that playlist of archival assets of All India Radio will also be made available in Alexa platform in the future.


    Shri Rajiv Sawhney said that voice is the future of communication with the devices around us. Voice is everywhere and already 390 million people around the world are using voice based communication and this would almost triple to 1.83 billion people in the next 3 years.


    Background:


    Vividh Bharati and 14 other regional language streaming services of All India Radio will be streamed on Amazon Alexa. Archival assets of All India Radio will be made available in Amazon Alexa in near future. All India Radio will get an additional platform for global and domestic audiences and will cover all the shadow areas of the terrestrial broadcasting in the regional, headquarters and metro cities in particular. Alexa would supplement All India Radio’s website and App.


    ***


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547837) Visitor Counter : 685
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Tamil