      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey inaugurates 63rd Foundation Day celebrations of AIIMS, New Delhi
      Posted On: 25 SEP 2018 5:37PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare inaugurated the 63 rd Foundation Day celebrations of the AIIMS, New Delhi, here today. At the function, Shri Choubey gave away the research excellence awards to 14 faculty members. Academic awards and medals were given to 30 medical and paramedical students. Dr J S Guleria, Former Dean (Academics) and Head of the Department of Medicine, AIIMS and Prof Randeep Guleria, Director AIIMS, New Delhi were also present at the event. This day marks the beginning of undergraduate teaching at AIIMS and was the day the first batch of MBBS classes was held in 1956.


    Speaking at the celebration function, Shri Choubey stated that the Institute has always maintained the highest standards of meritocracy and learning and has established itself not only in India but also at global platform as an apex medical institution that best combines excellent medical education with cutting edge research and quality healthcare.


    Shri Choubey further added that AIIMS has established high reputation and has contributed significantly in academic, research and patient care. It has maintained number one rank and has attracted students from various other countries like USA, UK, Australia, Germany, etc.


    Shri Choubey said that AIIMS is the mentor institution for the new AIIMS like Institutions being established across the country. In this regard, the work done by AIIMS in formulating and reviewing subordinate legislation including the AIIMS Rules and Regulations has been commendable.


    AIIMS, New Delhi also organised an exhibition on the theme ‘Next Generation Health Care”. All the departments displayed posters, exhibits and videos on the future of healthcare. Innovative and interactive displays including a dental check-up, eye check and other medical investigations were also arranged for the benefit of visitors. The exhibition will be open for the public till 30 th September, 2018. To promote the Campaign of ‘Swachhta Hi Seva’, a human chain was made with display of messages and slogans.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547211) Visitor Counter : 446