      Ministry of Earth Science

      Union Science & Technology Minister inaugurates air pollution mitigation devices at ITO and Mukarba Chowk in Delhi.
      
      Device can purify air in an area of 500m 2 ; 54 more such devices to be installed by 15th October in Delhi: Dr. Vardhan
      
      Posted On: 25 SEP 2018 3:37PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences and Environment, Forest and Climate change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan inaugurated air pollution control device WAYU(Wind Augmentation PurifYing Unit) for traffic junctions at ITO intersection and Mukarba Chowk in Delhi today.WAYU is developed by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research – National Environmental Engineering Research Institute ( CSIR-NEERI) as a part of Technology Development Project being funded by Department of Science and Technology.


    Speaking at the inauguration Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that the prototype device that has been indigenously developed has the capacity to purify air in an area of 500 meter square. Dr. Vardhan further added that the device consumes only half a unit of electricity for 10 hours of running and has a maintenance cost of only Rs. 1500 per month. “We are in the process of developing a bigger version of WAYU which can purify air in an area of 10,000 meter square and also the designs of future WAYU devices will have even better aesthetics and can be deployed in bus shelters etc.”, said Dr. Vardhan.


    The device works on two principles mainly Wind generation for dilution of air pollutants and Active Pollutants removal. The device has filters for Particulate Matter removal and activated carbon (charcoal) and UV lamps for poisonous gases removal such as VOCs and Carbon Monoxide. The device has one fan and filter for sucking and removing Particulate Matter. There are two UV lamps and half kg of activated carbon charcoal coated with special chemical Titanium Dioxide.


    By 15 th of October, the ministry plans to install 54 more WAYU devices at various traffic intersections across Delhi.


    ***


    RDS/GK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1547185) Visitor Counter : 926
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi