      AYUSH

      CCRAS organises Brainstorming Session on AYUSH in Public Health: Strategy & Frame Work
      
      Core Objective of the Brainstorming Session- To Crystallise a Framework for Mainstreaming of AYUSH

      Posted On: 26 SEP 2018 3:46PM by PIB Delhi

    The Ministry of AYUSH, Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences and other research councils have taken several initiatives to realise the mainstreaming of AYUSH services through an integrated approach and also generating scientific evidence on feasibility, quality, Safety, efficacy, accessibility and rational use of AYUSH based practices and drugs.


    To realize the functional integration of AYUSH in public health, it is pertinent to brainstorm on various dimensions of AYUSH in public health so that a socially and ecologically sustainable health care system with a vision, attitude and orientation for a holistic health and wellness perspective may be developed.


    The Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha. Director General CCRAS Prof. K.S. Dhiman and Deputy Director General CCRAS Dr. N Srikanth inaugurated ‘Brainstorming session on AYUSH in Public Health: Strategy & Frame Work’ on 25 th September 2018 at Lucknow. The core objective of the brainstorming session was to crystallise a framework for mainstreaming of AYUSH through a sustainable delivery of AYUSH services in Public Health Care System, across the nation through a consultative process of stake holders in this sector.


    The main objectives of the Brainstorming session are: formulate a National strategy and framework for introduction of AYUSH in national health care system within the provision of National Health Policy 2017, identify specific areas of AYUSH based on their strength and available scientific evidence, designing and developing specific programmes for mainstreaming of AYUSH interventions in areas such as Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs), Reproductive & Child Health care (RCH) , Geriatric health and capacity building of AYUSH professionals for integrated health care.


    The workshop drew a future roadmap for integration of AYUSH in public health.


    The National Health Policy 2017 and other Health Policies emphasize on mainstreaming the AYUSH practices and approaches for health promotion, prevention and management of different diseases and conditions through integrating and co-locating the services.


    During the event two books ‘Background Note on AYUSH in public health: Strategy and Framework’ and ‘Research Oriented Health Care Services of CCRAS’ were also released.


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547294) Visitor Counter : 423