      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Japanese Ambassador calls on MoS Dr. Jitendra Singh to review progress of Japan funded projects in India’s North-East
      Posted On: 26 SEP 2018 6:07PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ambassador of Japan to India, Mr. Kenji Hiramatsu called on the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh here today. The two dignitaries discussed cooperation in various sectors in India’s North-Eastern Region (NER) including infrastructure and bamboo research.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh noted with satisfaction that Japan has provided loan assistance of about Rs. 10,000 crore for various ongoing projects during the last over four years. Mr. Kenji said the NER projects account for approximately 10% of all ongoing projects supported by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) in India.


    The Japanese Ambassador gave a detailed presentation about the nine ongoing developmental projects in the NER supported by the JICA such as the Water Supply and Sewerage project in Guwahati and a number of projects under three Phases of the North East Connectivity project. He said the JICA is also supporting three new projects in the NER including the Umian Umtru Hydro Power Stage-3 rd project in Meghalaya.


    Mr. Kenji sought the Minister’s intervention in timely implementation and constant review of the NER projects funded by JICA and Japan’s Official Development Assistance (ODA). Dr. Jitendra Singh said the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has laid stress on rapid development of the NER and this week he inaugurated India’s 100 th airport in the North-Eastern state of Sikkim. Dr. Jitendra Singh assured he would pursue with the Ministry of Home Affairs to ensure security for projects delayed due to insurgency problems.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1547421) Visitor Counter : 305