      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      AAI’s Ahmedabad and Indore Airports awarded as Best Airports under National Tourism Awards 2016-17
      Posted On: 27 SEP 2018 5:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Airports Authority of India’s Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Airport, Indore and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, Ahmedabad were conferred with the prestigious National Tourism Awards 2016-17 at a glittering award function on World Tourism Day here today.


    Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, Ahmedabad received the Best Airport Award in Major Cities category and Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Airport, Indore received the Best Airport Award in ‘Rest of India’ category for promotion of Tourism at these airports. The award was presented by Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Tourism, Shri K.J. Alphons.


    Shri Manoj Gangal, Airport Director, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, Ahmedabad and Smt. Aryama Sanyal, Airport Director, Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Airport, Indore along with Shri Keshava Sharma, Regional Executive Director (WR) AAI, received the award from the Minister and Smt. Rashmi Verma, Secretary, Ministry of Tourism .


    The Ministry of Tourism presents National Tourism Awards to various segments of the travel and tourism industry every year. These awards are presented to State Governments / Union Territories, classified hotels, heritage hotels, approved travel agents, tour operators and tourist transport operators, individuals and other private organizations in recognition of their performance in their respective fields and also to encourage healthy competition with an aim to promoting tourism.


    One of the busiest airport of Madhya Pradesh, Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Airport, Indore is predominantly connected to major cities. The state-of -the -art integrated terminal building of Indore airport has world-class facilities and services.


    Indore Airport has been awarded the ‘Best Airport by Region’ among the airports handling under 2 million passengers per year in Asia-Pacific region.


    Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, Ahmedabad is the Airport of India’s first World Heritage City. The geographic location of the Airport makes it suitable for connectivity to major important international and domestic destinations.


    Ahmedabad Airport has risen to ASQ rating of 4.8 on the scale of 5. The Airport was recently awarded the “Most Improved Airport” in the Asia- Pacific region for the year 2017 by Airports Council International.


    Smt. Aryama Sanyal, Airport Director, Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Airport, Indore receiving the National Tourism Award 2016-17 by Shri K.J. Alphons, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Tourism, for Best Airport in Rest of India Category.


    Shri Manoj Gangal, Airport Director, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, Ahmedabad along with Shri Keshava Sharma, Regional Executive Director (WR) AAI receiving the National Tourism Award 2016-17 by Shri K.J. Alphons, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Tourism, for Best Airport in Major Cities Category.


    ***


    RJ/KGS/JBS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547711) Visitor Counter : 1336