      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      TRIFED & “TRIBES INDIA” to present “Punch Tantra collection & Ms. Mary Kom as Brand Ambassador” Tomorrow
      Posted On: 26 SEP 2018 5:05PM by PIB Delhi


    A Launch ceremony of “Punch Tantra Collection and Ms. Mary Kom as Brand Ambassador of Tribes India” will be organised by TRIFED and Tribes India under Ministry of Tribal Affairs tomorrow i.e. on 27 th Sept, 2018 in Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. Shri. Jual Oram, Union Minister for Tribal Affairs will introduce the Indian Sporting Legend and the World Boxing Champion, Ms. Mary Kom as Brand Ambassador of “Tribes India” and will also launch the “Punch Tantra Diwali collection”. The Ministers of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Jaswantsinh Sumanbhai Bhabhor and Shri Sudarshan Bhagat, Secretary, M/o Tribal Affairs Shri Deepak Khandekar, and Managing Director, TRIFED Shri Pravir Krishna will be present on the occasion.


    The Punch Tantra range of tribal arti-facts include handlooms and handicrafts, which are inspired and promoted by the World Boxing Champion Ms Mary Kom. Punch Tantra exclusive Collection is inspired by the qualities of hard work, discipline, determination and dedication that symbolizes Ms. Mary Kom the brand Ambassador of TRIBES INDIA. As the name of the collection suggests, it is like the powerful “punch” of Mary Kom which is the result of her hard work and dedication to reach the pinnacle of success, the collection also reflects the hard work and dedication of the tribal master craftsperson in creating master pieces of art and crafts.


    The Punch Tantra is a magnificent collection of such excellence and powerful tribal legacy, which comprises of a range of ethnic and traditional tribal handicraft and handloom products like Sarees, Stoles, Dupatas, Shawls, Kurtas/Kurtis, Lamp shades (Kandels), Sky Lanters, Diyas, Gift hampers, etc. specially introduced for the coming Diwali and festival season.


    TRIFED promotes tribal products through network of Tribes India Showrooms, Aadi Mahotsavs /Exhibitions and various e-commerce platforms namely, Amazon, Flipkart, Snapdeal and GeM which provide a window to National & International markets. TRIFED has brought more and more tribal artisans in its ambit of operations for improving their livelihood and upgrade their economic status.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tribal -02/26-9-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547368) Visitor Counter : 1173