      Vice President's Secretariat

      Don’t do anything to dishonor the prestige of our mothers and sisters: Vice President tells Students
      
      
      Universities need to overhaul syllabi and teaching methodologies to make them relevant to needs of the industries;
      
      Share and care is the core of our Indian philosophy;
      
      Addresses 4th Convocation of NIT, Goa
      Posted On: 28 SEP 2018 12:51PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has asked students to not to indulge in any activity that dishonor the prestige of our mothers and sisters and remain committed to highest moral and ethical values in their life. He was addressing the 4th Convocation of the National Institute of Technology, Panaji, Goa today. The Governor of Goa, Smt. Mridula Sinha, the Chairman and Members of Board of Governors, NIT Goa and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President advised the graduating students not to take any short-cuts or quick fixes to scale new heights. He further said that perseverance, honesty, empathy, patience and self-belief will enable you to realize their dreams. Nothing is impossible to achieve but the path you choose has be a righteous one, he added.


    The Vice President said that as engineers, it is important for students and the youth to take a closer look at the collective needs of the populace and come up with innovative, cost-effective solutions, especially in areas such as healthcare and education. He further said that wherever they go, do not forget their obligation towards the society and the nation. You cannot neglect the ethical aspect of your engineering profession and remember that if you make your contribution towards the cause of the society with a sense of responsibility and commitment, you will always be remembered, he added.


    Saying that India poised to become a high middle-income country by 2030, and lot of opportunities will be waiting for the skilled youth in different sectors, the Vice President asked the Teachers to impart skills to the youngsters to enable them find gainful employment or become self-employed. Government’s ‘Skill India’ programme is a step in that direction, he added.


    The Vice President said that even 71 years after attaining Independence, we are saddled with numerous challenges such as poverty, illiteracy, diseases, farmers’ distress and social evils like atrocities on women and weaker sections, child labour, terrorism, communalism and corruption have to be eradicated to build a New and Resurgent India. I expect the youth of the country to be in the forefront of this noble mission, he added.


    Stressing the importance of education, the Vice President said that it is not just for employment and it is meant to empower, enlighten, widen the perspective of the students and develop them into global citizens.


    He emphasized the urgent need to revamp our higher education in tune with contemporary requirements. We simply cannot continue to have lakhs of engineering students graduating without basic employable skills every year and this undesirable trend has to be stopped. Our Universities need to overhaul the syllabi and the teaching methodologies to make the courses relevant to the needs of the industries, he added.


    Following is the text of Vice President's address :


    "I am delighted to address you all on the occasion of the 4 th Convocation of NIT Goa and share my thoughts.


    Dear students, a convocation is not a mere ceremonial occasion, but a milestone marking the beginning of a new chapter in your life - a new chapter full of hopes, dreams and expectations of a bright and fulfilling career ahead. My best wishes to all of you for your future endeavors!


    Today is the culmination of the years of hard work you had put in as a student. But remember that this is not the end of your learning as there are no full-stops to acquiring knowledge and skills. In fact, learning is a life-long process and every experience teaches you something new. However, what is important is to set new goals and targets and remain committed to achieving them.


    As you embark on a new and exciting journey, never look for short-cuts or quick fixes to scale new heights. Perseverance, honesty, empathy, patience and self-belief will enable you to realize your dreams. Nothing is impossible to achieve but the path you choose has be a righteous one. Never yield to temptations for short term or selfish gains. Always remain committed to highest moral and ethical values.


    You are all aware that India is the fastest growing economy and the GDP is expected to grow at 7.3 per next year. With improvement in the ease of doing business rankings, India has become an attractive destination for FDIs, while the World Bank had stated that private investments are expected to grow by 8.8 per cent in FY 2018-19. The IT sector continues to be a leading employer even as India remained the third largest hub for technology startups.


    With India poised to become a high middle-income country by 2030, there will be lot of opportunities for the youth in different sectors. The need of the hour is to impart skills to the youngsters to enable them find gainful employment or become self-employed. The Government’s ‘Skill India’ programme is a step in that direction.


    Dear youngsters, even 71 years after attaining Independence, we are saddled with numerous challenges that have to be combated in a concerted manner by all conscientious citizens. Poverty, illiteracy, diseases, farmers’ distress and social evils like atrocities on women and weaker sections, child labour, terrorism, communalism and corruption have to be eradicated to build a New and Resurgent India, and I expect the youth of the country to be in the forefront of this noble mission.


    As engineers, it is important for you to take a closer look at the collective needs of the populace and come up with innovative, cost-effective solutions, especially in areas such as healthcare and education. I would also like the engineering professionals to assume greater responsibility in creating safe, secure, healthy, productive and sustainable life for the countrymen.


    The education system lays the foundation for the all-round progress of a nation. For India to become the third largest and $ 10 trillion economy by 2030, we have to surmount many barriers and achieve faster growth. Young engineers like you need to play a play catalytic role in accelerating the wheels of progress. In the present era of globalization, you not only have to be tech-savvy, but highly motivated, competent, innovative and push the boundaries of performance.


    At the same time, you have to remember one important aspect-- the Indian value system is based on the principles of universalism, peace and prosperity for all, or you may say, “ Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam ” - the whole world is one family. True education inculcates the values of humility and tolerance. Value-based teaching modules aim at holistic development - physical, psychological and moral. Knowledge of technology combined with ethics and values can ensure transparency, prevent social evils like corruption and gender discrimination. A strong and vibrant nation can be built only on the bedrock of a sustainable value system in accordance with our national ethos and human values.


    Dear students, you are on the threshold of a new life. As you step out into the bigger world, take an oath to work for the good of the society and the country. Education is not only for employment. It is meant to empower, enlighten, widen the perspective of the students and develop them into global citizens.


    Here, I would like to emphasize upon the urgent need to revamp our higher education in tune with contemporary requirements. We simply cannot continue to have lakhs of engineering students graduating without basic employable skills every year. This undesirable trend has to be stopped.


    Our Universities need to overhaul the syllabi and the teaching methodologies to make the courses relevant to the needs of the industries. I also feel that engineering students should be made to work as interns for some weeks every year to enable them gain firsthand experience.


    Although our achievements have been quite impressive during the past seven decades in various fields including agriculture, industry, health, atomic energy, defense research and information technology, among others, we have miles to go. As mentioned earlier, we need to improve the quality of life of the millions of Indians, and the role of scientists and engineers is very important in overcoming various challenges.


    Climate change and global warming are two of the biggest challenges the world is facing today and all nations have to step up their efforts to protect the environment and reduce carbon footprint. I have always maintained that man should not tamper with nature but co-exist in harmony with nature for a greener, life-enhancing future. Please remember that from times immemorial, Indians believed in worshipping nature and its bounty. Therefore, always uphold our culture and protect nature for a better future.


    Dear Graduates: The life beyond this institution is vast and complex. Wherever you go, please do not forget your obligation towards the society and the nation. You cannot neglect the ethical aspect of your engineering profession. Please remember that if you make your contribution towards the cause of the society with a sense of responsibility and commitment, you will always be remembered.


    I, once again, congratulate all the degree recipients. Today is your day. The years which you have spent at NIT Goa as students in the company of your peers and facilitators, would always be cherished by all of you. Intertwined with these good memories, you are now embarking on a new journey to explore new vistas. The road ahead may be rough and tough, but continue with perseverance and passion. I am sure you will make the nation and your alma mater proud.


    All the best for a bright and rewarding career!


    JAI HIND!"


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547797) Visitor Counter : 743
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil