      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Tribes India launches “Punch Tantra Collection and Ms Mary Kom as Brand Ambassador”
      Posted On: 27 SEP 2018 4:59PM by PIB Delhi


    Tribes India and TRIFED under the Ministry of Tribal Affairs launched “Punch Tantra Collection and Ms. Mary Kom as Brand Ambassador of Tribes India” at a function here today. Shri Jual Oram, Union Minister for Tribal Affairs introduced the Indian Sporting Legend and the World Boxing Champion Ms. Mary Kom as the Brand Ambassador of “Tribes India” and launched the “Punch Tantra” Diwali collection. Four promotional video spots produced by NFDC featuring Brand Ambassador Ms. Mary Com promoting Tribal products of Tribes India were also released on the occasion.


    The Punch Tantra range of tribal artefacts includes handlooms and handicrafts, which are inspired and promoted by the World Boxing Champion Ms Mary Kom. Shri R.C. Meena, Chairman, TRIFED, Shri. Deepak Khandekar, Secretary, M/o Tribal affairs and Shri Pravir Krishna, Managing Director, TRIFED were present.


    Shri Jual Oram said that the probable potential of TRIFED is much more than many other PSUs under the Government and if utilized properly, it may become a game changer in the Indian economy. He commended the efforts of TRIFED for promoting tribal products through the vast network of Tribes India Showrooms, Aadi Mahotsavs/Exhibitions and various e-commerce platforms namely, Amazon, Flipkart, Snapdeal and GeM which provide a window to National & International markets. Now TRIFED has opened 103 Sale outlets nationwide and its turnover has also increased 300 times. We have extraordinarily talented tribal artists and master craftsmen and women and their potential needs to be harnessed so that they may become industrialists. In addition, proper marketing strategy should be adopted for sale of diverse tribal products, he added.


    The Minister further said that the Ministry of Tribal Affairs is highly obliged to Ms. Mary Com for her support to the tribal products and that too without any remuneration. He hoped that by roping in Ms Mary Com, the sale of Tribes India products will also gain new heights.


    Ms Mary Com, in her address, thanked Ministry of Tribal Affairs and said that she feels very happy to be associated with the Tribes India. She said that she herself belongs to the Tribal community. She hoped the such initiatives will bring great change in the lives of tribal people, socially and economically.


    Shri Deepak Khandekar said that there are so many tribal products and proper marketing strategies are being adopted by TRIFED and launching Ms Mary Com is a right decision in this direction. The ultimate objective of TRIFED is to work for the betterment of tribal artisans and the Ministry.


    In his opening remarks, Shri Pravir Krishna said that that all out efforts are being made for increasing livelihood opportunities of tribal artisans and tribal entrepreneurs across the country through various schemes. He said that presently there are one lakh tribal artisans in our country and TRIFED wants to make them skilled master craftsmen and entrepreneurs. He expressed his happiness that the business on e-commerce has now reached to Rs. 10 Lakhs and it is being linked with Mudra and Jan Dhan Bank.


    In his vote of thanks, Shri R.C. Meena said that the TRIFED has developed an e-commerce portal www.eshop.tribesindia.com for sale of its products. TRIFED’s sole objective is to bring about a multidimensional transformation of the tribal society.


    Punch Tantra exclusive Collection products were unveiled during the event. These product symbolises with the years of hard-work, discipline, determination and dedication of both tribal artisans of the country and the Brand Ambassador Mary Kom. As the name of the collection suggests, the “punch” of Mary Kom represents the hard work and dedication of the tribal master craftpersons in creating such master prices of art and craft. The Punch Tantra is a magnificent collection of such excellence and powerful tribal legacy, which comprises of a range of ethnic and traditional tribal handicraft and handloom products like Sarees, Stoles, Dupatas, Shawls, Kurtas/Kurtis, Lamp shades (Kandels), Sky Lanters, Diyas, Gift hampers, etc. specially introduced for the coming Diwali and festival season.


    As part of its initiative of promoting tribal entrepreneurship and generating livelihood opportunities, TRIFED invited top 200 tribal artisans/ producers associated with it, from different regions of the country. Besides, a team of 60 young entrepreneurs from Dantevada, Chhattisgarh was also present. These young entrepreneurs have been invited to Delhi jointly by Niti Aayog and TRIFED to explore opportunities for livelihood development. All these tribal artisans and entrepreneurs create attractive handcraft and handloom products out of different fabrics, iron/metal or clay, wood/bamboo, beads and other material close to nature. Much of their output relates to fabrics, which are simple, in bold designs and colours, and express a simple but robust attitude to life. Tribal artisans are excellent at crafting things of beauty, but vulnerable in the competitive world of urban marketing. It is here that the Government has to intervene to fulfil its constitutional obligation of protecting the cultural and economic interest of tribes, which include providing livelihood and empowering them for a better life.


    *****


    NB/SK/Tribal Affairs/27.09.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547691) Visitor Counter : 1116
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil