      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi Chairs 57th Meeting of General Body and 101st Meeting of Governing Body of Maulana Azad Education Foundation
      Posted On: 25 SEP 2018 5:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said that the foundation stone of first world class educational institute for poor, backward and Minorities will be laid at Alwar in Rajasthan on 01 st October, 2018.


    While chairing the 57 th meeting of General Body and 101 st meeting of Governing Body of Maulana Azad Educational Foundation, Shri Naqvi said that the educational institution, being set up in Alwar, will start functioning in 2020.


    Shri Naqvi said that the Rajasthan Government has given 15 acres of land in Kohrapipali village in Kishangarh Bas tehsil of Alwar district for this educational institute. World class research centres, labs, libraries, educational facilities for primary to higher studies and sports facilities will be established here. He said that these world class institutions will provide education in technical, medical, Ayurved, Unani and job-oriented skill development courses etc. We have proposed 40 per cent reservation for girls in these institutions.


    A 3-member committee of Minority Affairs Ministry’s officials and members of the Maulana Azad Education Foundation has been constituted to chalk out the entire process of the institute at Alwar. Soon, the detailed project report (DPR) will be prepared regarding construction and other process for the institute. The Minority Affairs Ministry had worked out on a plan a year ago to establish world class educational institutes for poor, backward and Minorities and a 11-member committee, headed by former Secretary, Govt. of India, Shri Afzal Amanullah, had been constituted in this regard.


    In the 57 th meeting of General Body and 101 st meeting of Governing Body of Maulana Azad Educational Foundation, various schemes for educational empowerment of minorities, "Begum Hazrat Mahal Girls Scholarship", "Gharib Nawaz Kaushal Vikas Yojana", other scholarship programmes were reviewed.


    Shri Naqvi said that during the last about 4 years, the Central Government’s “Empowerment without Appeasement” policy has ensured that record about 3 crore students belonging to poor and weaker sections of Minorities have been benefitted from various scholarship programmes. The beneficiaries include about 1 crore 63 lakh girls.


    Shri Naqvi said that school dropout rate among Muslim girls, which was earlier more than 70 per cent, has now been reduced to about 35-40 per cent due to awareness and educational empowerment programmes of the Government. Our goal is to bring it down to zero per cent. Transparent and hassle-free scholarship system has played a key role in this endeavour. This year, "National Scholarship Portal Mobile App" (NSP Mobile App) has been launched which will ensure a smooth, accessible and hassle-free scholarship system for students from poor and weaker sections.


    Shri Naqvi said that Ministry of Minority Affairs has worked with commitment to “3E- Education, Employment & Empowerment”. In the last about one year, thousands of educational institutions of all Minority communities including Madarsas, have been included in the mainstream education system by connecting them with "3T-Teacher, Tiffin, Toilet".


    *****


    RDS/FH/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1547204) Visitor Counter : 280