      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      20th livestock Census to be conducted from 1st October in all districts of the country
      
      All States and Union Territories to participate

      Posted On: 28 SEP 2018 3:24PM by PIB Delhi

    The 20th Livestock Census will be conducted in all districts of the Indian Union in participation with all States and Union Territories. States/UTs have been requested to start the census operations from 1 st October, 2018. The success of this novel initiative is dependent on full cooperation and commitment from all States/UTs Governments. The enumeration will be done in all villages and urban wards. Various species of animals (Cattle, Buffalo, Mithun, Yak, Sheep, Goat, Pig, Horse, Pony, Mule, Donkey Camel, Dog, Rabbit and Elephant)/poultry birds (Fowl, Duck, Emu, Turkeys, Quail and other poultry birds) possessed by the households, household enterprises/non-household enterprises and institutions will be counted at their site.


    The major thrust of 20 th Livestock Census would be data collection through tablets /computers which aims to fulfil the objective of Digital India Programme of Hon’ble Prime Minister. The tablets procured under NMBP Scheme will be used for data collections of 20th Livestock Census for which necessary support has been provided to States under that scheme. A mobile Application software has already been developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC) for collecting transferring the data online. It is expected that the data collection through Tablets will be of great help in reducing the time gap in data collection, data processing and report generation.


    The initiatives on collection of breed-wise reliable information of various species will give vital information for determination of threatened indigenous breeds and to take initiatives for their conservation. Considering this aspect, the 20 th Livestock Census would be a breed-wise Livestock Census which will be helpful for framing policies or programmes for breed improvement. Breed-wise information of livestock and poultry will be collected from every survey unit. The breeds of various major species including poultry as registered by National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR) will be covered in the Livestock Census.


    Further, the latest data on fishermen folk are available as per Livestock Census 2003 only. Therefore, the fishery part is a very important component so as to capture the information of fishermen families and infrastructure available for both inland and marine sector.


    The Livestock Census has been conducted in the country periodically since 19191-20. The Livestock Census usually covers all domesticated animals and headcounts of those animals will be carried out during a specific time period. So far 19 such census have been conducted in participation with State Governments and UT Administrations.


    *****


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547808) Visitor Counter : 992
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil