      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Newly Renovated Building of ESIC Regional Office, Puducherry Inaugurated Today
      
      DCBOs to be Opened in every District of the Country

      Posted On: 27 SEP 2018 4:22PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (I/C) for Labour & Employment, inaugurated newly renovated building of ESIC Regional Office, Puducherry in the presence of Shri M. Kandawamy, Minister for Labour & Employment, Govt. of Puducherry today.


    The Minister in his address informed the gathering that new building of ESIC Regional Office, Puducherry has been renovated and upgraded with project cost of Rs. 6.41 crore. Renovated building of Regional Office consists of Branch Office, four doctor dispensary with 6 beds ward, laboratory, Pharmacy, registration counter, etc. The Regional Office, Branch Office and Dispensary would be exclusively run for the benefit of insured persons and their family members covered under ESI Scheme. He also informed that the ESI Scheme was implemented for the first time in the Union Territory of Puducherry on 02.10.1966. Today, the ESI Scheme is serving more than one lakh insured persons and 3.97 lakhs beneficiaries through a network of Regional Office, one ESI Hospital, 12 ESI Dispensaries, 06 Branch Offices, 2 Pay offices and 2 Inspection Offices spread throughout the districts of Puducherry and Karaikal . He further informed the gathering about the various initiatives and welfare measures taken by his Ministry.


    He also informed that ESIC has taken decision to open Dispensary-cum-Branch Office (DCBO) in every district of the country in phased manner. These DCBOs is being set up in every district of the country to make presence of primary care services, irrespective of whether a district has been partially or fully implemented or there is already a State run Dispensary in that area. The dispensary cum branch office will provide primary medical care, referrals for secondary medical care, scrutiny of bills of secondary care referrals etc. Besides, ESIC has also launched a mobile app ‘ESIC Chinta Se Mukti’ which is available on Umang Platform of Govt. of India. One can easily visit this App for knowing various services available under ESI Scheme, contribution & claim status etc.


    On the occasion of “Swachhta Hi Seva Pakhwara”, Shri Gangwar and other Dignitaries planted sapling to reiterate the importance of clean environment. He also took round of new building of ESIC Regional Office, Dispensary and Branch Office. A demonstration on good hand hygiene practice was also done by the doctors of ESI Hospital, Puducherry.


    Shri R. Radhakrishnan, Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha), Shri Raj Kumar, Director General, ESIC and other dignitaries also graced the occasion.


    ******


    RDS/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547672) Visitor Counter : 263
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil