      Ministry of Science & Technology

      4th India International Science Festival to be inaugurated by President of India.
      
      IISF 2018 a tribute to former PM Late Sh. Atal Bihari Vajpayee: Dr. Harsh Vardhan

      Posted On: 24 SEP 2018 5:26PM by PIB Delhi

    The fourth edition of India International Science Festival will be inaugurated by President of India in Lucknow on October 6, 2018. IISF-2018 is expected to be represented by approximately 10000 delegates including 5000 students, 550 teachers, 200 students from North-East Region, 20 international delegates and approximately 200 startups.


    Addressing a curtain raiser in New Delhi, Science & Technology Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said, IISF is the biggest platform in the country to bring together students, researchers, innovators, artists and general public to celebrate India’s achievements in science and technology. The Minister said that IISF is a medium to encourage the young minds towards the field of science and to promote the networking of stakeholders working towards the propagation of science.


    Dr Harsh Vardhan further added that, the current edition of the festival in Lucknow is a tribute to former Prime Minister Late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had brought Science to the centre stage of national agenda. It was Shri Vajpayee who had added Jai Vigyan to Lal Bahadur Shastri’s slogan of “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan”, Dr. Vardhan said. “All stakeholders will assemble to collectively work towards Vigyan se Vikas - contributing to the Making of a New India as envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is taking forward the legacy of late Atal Ji”, said the Union Minister.


    IISF-2018 with its focal theme “Science for Transformation” will have 23 special events. The Global Indian Science & Technology Stakeholders Meet (GIST), Industry Academia Meet and Science & Technology for Harnessing Innovations (SATHI) - A National startup entrepreneurship summit and Student Science Village are some of the important events, being organized. The Science Village program is linked with the Pradhan Mantri Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana to reach out to the rural masses and propagate science and for seeking scientific solutions to the diverse challenges facing our society, particularly rural India.


    Speaking at the occasion, Secretary Department of Biotechnology, Dr. Renu Swaroop said that the special role of Women Scientists and Entrepreneurs in shaping the scientific growth trajectory will be another highlight of this Festival. The programme aspires to develop new entrepreneurship and explore new vistas of opportunities in the field of science and technology among the women. Approximately 800 women scientist/entrepreneurs will attend the event.


    There will be a special effort to engage with stakeholders of the Northeast and the aspirational districts. North East Student’s Conclave will bring hundreds of innovative, dedicated, passionate and award winning students on a single platform to share their experiences and put forth the new dimensions of passion with science. Another feature of IISF-2018 will be Mega Science and Industry Expo that will highlight the outstanding contributions of India in the field of science, technology, and industry.


    As World record attempts have been a key part of IISF since 2015, in IISF 2018, a World Record attempt will be made to “isolate DNA” by 500 students from class 8 th to 10 th standard.


    Building Partnerships: Impacting Society is the theme for the “State S&T Ministers’ conclave”. Nav Bharat Nirman and the Science and Literary Festival are the other highlights of IISF 2018. This festival is expected to bring all stakeholders together to discuss the contributions of Science & Technology to the flagship programmes of the Government.


    The first and second IISF were held in New Delhi and the third in Chennai. Ministry of Science & Technology; Earth Sciences in association with Vijnana Bharti or VIBHA is organising the four-day event from 5-8 October, 2018. As a prelude to the main event, Department of Biotechnology and Vijana Bharti (VIBHA) have been organising outreach programmes at 80 centres across the country.


    ***


    RDS/GK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1547091) Visitor Counter : 3430