      Ministry of Culture

      Exhibition "India - Uzbekistan: Dialogue of Cultures" inaugurated in the Capital, today
      Posted On: 25 SEP 2018 5:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Secretary, Ministry of Culture, Shri Arun Goel inaugurated the exhibition "India - Uzbekistan: Dialogue of Cultures" at National Museum, New Delhi, today. First Deputy Chairman, Senate of Uzbekistan, His excellency Mr. Sadyk Safaev; Ambassador, Republic of Uzbekistan to India, His Excellency Mr. Farhod Arziev; Director General, National Museum, Dr B.R. Mani among other dignitaries graced the Inaugural function. The Exhibition was dedicated to the state visit of the President of the Republic of Uzbegistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev to the Republic of India that will begin early next week.


    Addressing the event Shri Arun Goel said that the Exhibition is a beginning of several things to come in the near future. He said that people to people contact makes Government to Government contact easier and that Joint exhibitions like the present one would go a long way in establishing strong bilateral ties. The Secretary also assured Ministry of Culture’s complete cooperation for furthering the rich and deep cultural ties between both the nations.


    Speaking on the occasion, His excellency Mr. Sadyk Safaev said that the World today is in difficult times and the way to make the planet a better place is only through cultural contact, trust, and bringing people closer. He also said that people of Uzbekistan are eager to know of Indian culture.


    National Museum, Ministry of Culture, Government of India in Collaboration with the Embassy of Uzbekistan in New Delhi; Rampur Raza Library, Rampur; Khuda Baksh Oriental Public Library, Patna and the National Association of Electronic Mass Media of Uzbekistan for the first time has exhibited a collection of "Kushan coins, Archaeological artifacts related to Kushan, manuscripts and paintings of shared cultural heritage of India and Uzbekistan made in different time epoch covering religious and scientific subjects.


    The exhibition explores the shared link in the respective histories of Uzbekistan and India in which deep oral traditions coexisted with the written word. It also foster a dynamic exchange with academic, technical and professional partners on effective approaches to cataloguing and management of cultural artifacts and their conservation and preservation. It also promotes and encourages the use of the manuscripts for academic and research purposes.


    This exhibition " India - Uzbekistan: Dialogue of Cultures “ showcases original artifacts from the National Museum collection which include coins from the royal mints of Kushans including coins depicting portraits of Kanishka, Huvishka , alluring sculptures from the Kushan period, the intricate manuscripts including miniature paintings from Baburnama, manuscripts of the Holy Quran, Timurnamah, Bukharisharif, Bayaz, Tuzk-i-Jahangiri and others.


    The other highlights of the exhibition are some unique facsimiles of famous manuscripts and paintings like the Kattalangar Quran, Diwan by Sultan Hussein Baikara, Zafarnama by SharafiddinYazdi, Tarikh-i-Khandan-i-Taimuria, Majalis-al-Ushshaq, Mirat al-Ashbab-i-Salatin-iasman-jah, and portraits of Amir Tumur, Zahiruddin Muhammad Babur and Jahangir among others. The exhibition also includes the already published albums of the project "Cultural legacy of Uzbekistan in the world's collections" and various volumes from the series "Architectural Epigraphy of Uzbekistan".


    This exhibition will remain open for public from 25th September 2018 to 24th October 2018.


    ****


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547201) Visitor Counter : 1213