      Ministry of Education

      Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi to inaugurate Conference on Academic Leadership on Education for Resurgence on 29th September, 2018 in New Delhi
      Posted On: 28 SEP 2018 11:02AM by PIB Delhi


    A Conference on Academic Leadership on Education for Resurgence is being organized on 29 th September, 2018 in Vigyan Bhawan in which the Vice-Chancellors/Directors from more than 350 universities are participating. This event is being organized jointly by UGC, AICTE, ICSSR, IGNCA, IGNOU, JNU and SGT University.


    The theme of the Conference is to deliberate on the challenges facing the Indian education system and to work out a plan for a paradigm shift both in terms of achieving academic outcomes and also in regulation of education.


    The Conference is being inaugurated in the morning by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi which will be followed by breakout sessions covering eight thematic areas namely:


     1. Improving pedagogy for learner centric education – use of artificial intelligence for customized learning

     2. From job seeking to job creating – improving innovation and entrepreneurship
     3. Improving quality of research – focus on requirements of India
     4. Bringing synergy among educational institutions – pooling of academic resources like sharing of libraries and exchange of knowledge
     5. Building inclusive and integrated campuses – taking up activities which could bring emotional attachments of students to the campus
     6. Participatory Governance models – facilitating participation of students in governance processes
     7. Building robust financial models – supplementing Government resources by getting funds from alumni and also from corporate (CSR)
     8. Promoting value education by building in universal values and life skills into education.

    The valedictory session will be chaired by Shri Prakash Javadekar, Minister for Human Resource Development in which each of the eight groups will make presentation on the course of action that they have agreed upon. This will be debated further in the Plenary Session and it is expected that a comprehensive action plan would emerge for improving the higher education sector in the country.


    This Conference is in continuation of the efforts being made by the Ministry for evolving an action plan for transformation of the higher education sector. The first among this was held in Delhi during Vice-Chancellors’ Conference from 26-28 July, 2018.


    ***


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547781) Visitor Counter : 660
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Tamil
    
    
    

8.