      AYUSH

      Shripad Naik lays Foundation Stone of Phase II of All India Institute of Ayurveda at Delhi
      Posted On: 26 SEP 2018 4:48PM by PIB Delhi


      Minister of State for AYUSH Shri Shripad Naik has laid the foundation stone of second phase of All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA) here today. Addressing the gathering Shri Naik said that the institute will help in imparting skills to Ayurvedic doctors to make them more efficient. He also said that this process will help in offering affordable treatment to people.


      The minister said that phase II, AIIA, Sarita Vihar would comprise of eight blocks and 3 level basement. “An auditorium with state of the art facilities having 500 seating capacity, AYUSH Sports Complex, Pharmacy Unit, Central Library, Panchakarma Wing, International Guest House, Residential Complex, Boy’s and girl’s hostel etc. are some of the salient features of Phase II construction”, he added. He further said that total constructed area would be approx. 60966 sq.m and cost of the project would be 212.36 crores (INR). The timeline allotted for completion of project is 33 months.


      With its inception, All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA) has the vision t o be an outstanding centre of excellence for Ayurveda tertiary health care and set highest standards of education, research and patient care through Ayurveda for the benefit of humanity.


      The institute is fully functional and serving approximately 1200 patients per day through OPD services and 200 beds IPD services along with 14 OPDs. With state of the art facilities for patient care and diagnostics, the Hospital is also NABH accredited.


      Looking into the ever increasing scope of work, extension work of All India Institute of Ayurveda was planned well in advance in form of Phase II. The work has been entrusted to National Projects Construction Corporation Limited.


      Mayor, SDMC Shri Narendra Chawla, Member of Parliament, Shri Ramesh Bidhuri, South Delhi and Secretary AYUSH Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha,were also present on this occasion.


      The institute was formally inaugurated and dedicated for service to nation by Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi on the occasion of 2 nd Ayurveda Day celebrated on Dhanwantari Jayanti i.e. 17 th October, 2017.


      *******


      RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547354) Visitor Counter : 669