      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog in collaboration with Department of Telecommunications and International Telecommunication Union Launches India’s First Online Course on Digital Payments targeted at Middle Management
      Posted On: 27 SEP 2018 4:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Digital Payments landscape in India is undergoing a transformation. It is expected to grow to US$ 1 trillion by 2023. With a view to further promote knowledge about the Digital Payments ecosystem, Shri Ratan P Watal, Principal Advisor, NITI Aayog and Member Secretary, EAPCM, today launched the Online Course on Digital Payments.


    This course titled ‘Understanding Digital Payments’ is an initiative by NITI Aayog. This course has been designed especially for India by International Telecommunication Union (ITU) a specialized UN Agency in ICT in consultation with NITI Aayog and Department of Telecommunications (DoT). This is being offered free of cost and is hosted by ITU Academy online.


    The course is targeted at mid-level officers in Government of India who are engaged in different training/teaching institutions. The course duration is two weeks (1 st to 15 th October 2018).


    There has been an overwhelming response to this course. 63 officers/academicians from across the Country have registered with ITU to undertake this course.


    The online program launched today would offer participants the ease of taking up the various modules from different locations and enhance their understanding of different subjects related to Digital Payments such as standards, interoperability, security issues, futuristic trends like Distributed Ledger Technologies, consumer protection aspects etc.


    This course will be delivered by experts from ITU and will be coordinated by Shri B.N. Satpathy, Senior Consultant, EACPM, NITI Aayog, Shri. Suneet Mohan, Young Professional, NITI Aayog, Shri. Raghunandan, Deputy Director General (International Relations), DoT and by Ms. Mousumy Bedekar, Deputy Director General (Capacity Building & Training), DoT.


    *****


    AKT/VJ/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547815) Visitor Counter : 398