      Ministry of Defence

      Defence India Startup Challenge Deadline Gets Extended
      Posted On: 24 SEP 2018 5:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The last date for submission of applications to the Defence India Startup Challenge (DISC), being organised by the Defence Innovation Organisation (DIO) has been extended till October 31, 2018.


    The Defence India Startup Challenge has been launched by the Defence Innovation Organisation with support from Department of Defence Production, Ministry of Defence and Atal Innovation Mission, NITI Aayog for the Innovations for Defence Excellence (iDEX) scheme.


    The challenge was launched on August 04, 2018 by Raksha Mantri, Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman and calls for proposals to address specific technological needs of the Indian defence establishment. Applicants (startups/MSMEs & individuals) showing capability, intent, and promise to be able to produce functional prototypes or to productise existing technologies in areas listed below will be awarded up to Rs. 1.5 crores, strictly on a milestone basis in the form of grant/equity/debt/other relevant structures along with incubation and mentoring support.


    The Defence India Startup Challenge has 11 problem statements by Ministry of Defence, thrown open for prospective solutions to be provided by the Indian start up eco-system. The problem statement sectors are as below: -


    i. Individual Protection System with built-in sensors


    ii. See Through Armour


    iii. Carbon Fibre Winding (CFW)


    iv. Active Protection System (APS)


    v. Secure hardware based offline Encrypt or Device for Graded Security


    vi. Development of 4G/LTE based Tactical Local Area Network


    vii. Development of Advanced Technology Based Desalination System (Water Purification) and Bilge Oily Water Separation System


    viii. Artificial Intelligence in Logistics & SCM


    ix. Unmanned Surface and Underwater Vehicles


    x. Remotely Piloted Airborne Vehicles


    xi. Laser Weaponry


    Applications can be submitted at aim.gov.in/idex, by October 31, 2018, in the online form.


    SRR/Nampi/DK/Rajib


    

    
    (Release ID: 1547093) Visitor Counter : 642