      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Month long Startup India – Maharashtra Yatra to begin from 3rd October
      Posted On: 27 SEP 2018 1:25PM by PIB Delhi


    The Startup India – Maharashtra Yatra will be launched on the 3 rd of October, 2018 by Union Minister for Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation, Suresh Prabhu, at Raj Bhawan, Mumbai. Maharashtra Governor, C. Vidyasagar Rao, Chief Minister of the State, Devendra Fadnavis, and Minister for Labour and Skill Development, Sambhaji Patil Nilangekar will grace the occasion.


    After a successful run in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana – the Startup India Yatra is making its way to Maharashtra. This leg of the Startup India Yatra is being conducted by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Invest India, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Department, Government of Maharashtra and Maharashtra State Innovation Society.


    Startup India Yatra van, equipped with facilities for individuals and Startups to pitch their ideas, is scheduled to travel to 16 Districts, with 23 Van Stops and 14 Boot Camps, and will conclude at a Grand Finale in Nagpur on 3 rd of November, 2018. The boot camps will include presentations on Startup India and Maharashtra Startup policy followed by extensive ideation workshops. An idea pitching session will be held to select the foremost ideas and Startups for the Grand Finale. The aspiring entrepreneurs are required to register at www.startupindia.gov.in to participate in the Yatra.


    Organised under the Startup India initiative, ‘Startup India Yatra’ is a Tier 2/3 initiative that travels to small cities of the country in search of entrepreneurial talent, provide them an opportunity to get incubated, and help develop startup ecosystem in the State.


    Click here for details of boot camps and van stops:


    ***


    MM/ SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1547628) Visitor Counter : 759
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Marathi