      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Ministry of Women and Child to give Poshan Awards to exemplary performers during POSHAN MAAH, under Poshan Abhiyaan
      Posted On: 28 SEP 2018 6:09PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Women and Child will give Poshan Awards to exemplary performers during POSHAN MAAH, under Poshan Abhiyaan. The awards are being given to sustain the momentum and recognize the efforts being put in at all levels as also to acknowledge the progress made by states in implementing POSHAN MAAH under POSHAN Abhiyaan. Frontline workers, community groups, PRIs, Staff at Block and District level, State departments and Ministries are exhibiting exemplary efforts towards triggering a Jan Andolan for POSHAN Abhiyaan. The month of September has been celebrated across the 36 States/UTs as Rashtriya Poshan Maah under POSHAN Abhiyaan.


    The awards are being given in several categories . These include Field level functionary awards, awards for individual excellence, AAA(A++)Award, village convergence Award, leadership awards, State level awards for best social media campaign, maximum reach across all themes, best innovative use of non-conventional methods of spreading awareness on POSHAN among others.


    The Poshan Award Ceremony is likely to be organised in the second week of October 2018 at New Delhi under the aegis of Ministry of Women and child Development.


    States/UTs have been requested to shortlist work of frontline functionaries who have worked tirelessly to make Poshan Maah a great success and forward the citations to Ministry of Women and Child Development through email to amit.gupta81@gov.in and singh.shalini71@nic.in . Guidelines on Awards and Recognition as part of Poshan Maah & POSHAN Abhiyaan have been shared with the States/UTs. The last date for receipt of citation has been extended from midnight of 30 th September 2018 to midnight of 03 rd October, 2018.


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547849) Visitor Counter : 791