      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s speech at the inauguration of Amul's chocolate plant and other projects in Anand, Gujarat
      Posted On: 30 SEP 2018 5:01PM by PIB Delhi


    All the dignitaries present on the stage and my dear brothers and sisters who are present here in large numbers.


    How are you? I can see that even this vast pandal is unable to accommodate this overflowing crowd. Several people are standing outside the shade. We all are extremely grateful that you have come here in such large numbers to shower your blessings. Today you have given me the opportunity to inaugurate, launch or lay the foundation stone of projects worth nearly Rs. 1100 crore. I salute and thank all the families of the farmers who are associated with the cooperative movement for this respect and honour shown to me.


    Today the identity of the Amul brand is etched in more than 40 countries around the world. I was really surprised when during some of my visits to the other countries, the delegates, the people of Indian origin, as well as some locals asked me to make arrangements for ensuring the supply of Amul products there. Whenever I heard this, I became inflated with pride that the cooperative movement of the farmers and seven decades of ceaseless efforts and hard work has established an identity for Amul within India as well as abroad. Amul has become an inspiration and a necessity. This is not a small achievement but a massive one. It is not only an industry generating products or a milk processing unit but also a model of an alternative economy.


    On one hand, there is a socialist economic framework while on the other hand there is a capitalist economic framework; on one hand, the economy is dominated by the government while on the other hand, the economy is in the hands of the private players. The world is familiar with these two types of economy. Great men like Sardar Saheb had sown the seed of a third economic framework where neither the government nor the rich capitalist class will have the dominance over the economy; that is the cooperative movement and the economy will grow with the cooperation of the farmers, the citizens and the public. Everyone will be a part of it.


    This is such a model of economy that provides a successful alternative to Socialism and Capitalism. We all are well aware of the fact that the formal form of Amul was ready almost a year before independence, but the cooperative movement was prevalent earlier too.


    Probably very few people know that Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel became the Chairman of Ahmedabad Municipality. At that time there was no corporation but Nagarpalika or Municipality. So he won the election from Dariyapur where our Kaushik Bhai used to win. Sardar Saheb won by just one vote and later became the Chairman.


    The concept of planning for urban development was introduced for the first time in Gujarat by Sardar Saheb when he was the Chairman of Ahmedabad Municipality. At that time his first experiment was with the Cooperative Housing Society. This was to provide houses to the middle class by constructing houses on the basis of cooperatives. At that time, Sardar Saheb had entrusted the work to one Pritam Rai Desai and the first housing society came up in Gujarat's Vardesh under the leadership and guidance of Sardar Saheb. And Sardar Saheb had inaugurated it on 28 th January 1927. While inaugurating, he asked the people to keep in mind that it was a new model of development. Proud with the work done by Pritam Rai Desai, he had named the society Pritam Nagar.


    Even today the memory of the first accomplishment of cooperative movement prevails in the form of Pritam Nagar in Ahmedabad. And gradually the trend of cooperatives diffused through every area, especially through Gujarat and Maharashtra. At that time Maharashtra was huge. In the entire area, cooperative was not merely a system, or a concept based on rules and regulations but a tradition etched in the public opinion and as a result of which the people associated with the cooperative movement of Gujarat have set a model for the entire nation.


    Ahead of Amul, northern Gujarat made its way in it. Dugdh Sagar dairy and Banas dairy were created. Sometimes I wonder what would have happened if we didn't have the people who led the cooperative movement here. Once Gujarat used to be in the grip of drought for 7 out of 10 years but today the scenario has changed. The frequency of drought has reduced. The farmers and the animal herders had to go through a lot of trouble. The milk producing group found a solution to this problem of farmers and subsequently the farmers are able to earn their livelihood by animal husbandry and selling milk even during the periods of drought. And thus their lives went on.


    However, later there was a time when a few governments came to power in Gandhinagar who formulated laws that created hindrances to the cooperative movement and dairy industry. Running the dairy industry in Kutch-Saurashtra region became burdensome even as the prevalence of animal husbandry was greater in Kutch-Saurashtra region.


    When we got the opportunity to serve the people, we completely transformed the scenario. We encouraged it everywhere. And today I can feel that in almost every district of Gujarat there lies a great opportunity for animal herders, farmers and milk producers.


    There are some people who consider them to be highly erudite and wise but when something that is out of their scope comes their way, their ego prevents them from accepting it. As they don't have the courage to oppose it, they start mocking it and making fun of it which is beyond our imagination.


    Such people exist. I clearly remember when we were trying to revive the economy of Kutch after the earthquake and initiating several welfare schemes, inaugurating the White Desert Rannotsav I had said in my speech that – ‘As far as I know, the camel's milk is very nutritious. It will definitely help in our children's development’. I don't know what wrong had the then Chief Minister Narendra Modi had committed that wherever I went, people mocked at me and made indignant comments for talking about camel's milk. Today I am glad that Amul's chocolates made of Camel's milk is in great demand. Just now Ramsingh Bhai was telling me that the rate of camel's milk is double than that of the cow milk.


    This is an example of what happens when people are ignorant. When a camel herder in a desert will get such a large market then he will have an assured livelihood. And I am glad that after so many years, Amul has fulfilled my dreams. We have felt the need to take several initiatives for nutrition in our country.


    When I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, I had taken several initiatives under the Poshan Mission. This is because it has been my conviction that India can be healthy only when our mothers and children are healthy. India can never fall ill.


    I am happy that solar energy and the cooperative movement have been synergized here . If crops can grow in the fields, even electricity can be produced from the fields. I congratulate the 11 farmers who joined hands and produced electricity by forming a cooperative and used that electricity in the fields. The surplus electricity is being purchased as per the law of the state government. I was told that this cooperative will have an excess income of Rs.50, 000 annually. In the field of cooperative, the land of Charottar is always geared up to try new experiments.


    The central government has promoted 3 important schemes - one the Jan Dhan Yojana, secondly the Van Dhan Yojana and thirdly the Gobardhan Yojana. Jan Dhan, Van Dhan and Gobardhan. Wealth out of waste - it is possible to get wealth out of animal waste and to generate gas, electricity and fertilizer out of cow dung. I clearly remember that there was an enthusiastic worker close to Dakor Umreth who started with the project of collection of cow dung from 10-12 villages. A gobar gas plant was established and the gas generated was supplied to the nearby villages. Today, the 11 farmers are generating electricity for solar pumps and selling the surplus. Cultivation of crops and solar energy is going on hand in hand. Likewise, separate groups of 11 villages can come together to begin the work of Gobardhan on mission mode.


    Today I am here on the soil of Charottar. With the penance of Sardar Saheb and several great personalities in the field of cooperatives, I hope that the work and tradition of this place will help Amul to guide everyone and the Gobardhan Yojana will be Swachh Bharat Mission in true sense. We will get wealth out of waste, clean energy and we will not have to be dependent upon foreign countries for certain products. It will open up a way for the service to the nation. I believe that in the coming days, if the job is taken up by the local people, then it will set a good example for the country.


    Amul will complete 75 years after a couple of years and India will celebrate 75 years of independence in the year 2022. I have seen that Amul is unstoppable. Thinking in an innovative manner and doing things differently and with courage is the nature of Amul. I have been associated with the team, its work culture, the professionals, the leaders of the cooperative movement for several years. I have always tried to understand it. They are courageous and habituated to trying out new things.


    Today I have come here to make a request to all the professionals and the leaders of the cooperative movement of Amul. Can Amul set new targets keeping in mind both the years i.e. the year marking 75 years of Amul's foundation and 75 years of Indian independence? We have 2-3 years with us. So can we set new targets and can all of us together give something new to the country and the world?


    We are ranked 10th in the world in milk processing. Can Amul set the target of increasing the rank from 10th to 3rd by 75 years of independence? I don't think it is a difficult task.


    There was a time when our country was living in scarcity. We were dealing with the problems of scarcity. At that time the processes of decision-making, thinking and working were different. It was imperative for the country to come out of the situation at the earliest. Today the country is not facing the problem of scarcity. Today the challenge before the country is of abundance. Farmers produce such a large quantity of crops that sometimes the price falls; the farmers are at a loss because of abundance.


    There was a time when production was very low and we had to import wheat even for consumption. Just like the white revolution, we had a green revolution. The warehouses of food grains had filled up. Now some of the things we produce are surplus. Processing or value addition is one of the solutions. If the dairy industry was not expanded or new processed products of milk were not made, then probably the farmers would have left milk production; they would have left animal husbandry because it wouldn't have been possible to compete profitably in the market. However, due to this system, the farmer is still enthusiastically associated with milk production.


    Similarly, value addition in agricultural products is equally important for us. When I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, I had attended the Krishi Mahotsav in Anand. So, I happened to meet one of my old friends. I too was surprised to see him. He was wearing coat, trousers and a tie. I asked him - brother, you have changed a lot! What are you doing these days? So he said - there were ‘Sarad’ or ‘Pandra’ here and I made powder of those and sold them; that's how my income grew. This is called value addition. Earlier the fruits used to fall on ground and no one was aware of its nutritional value. But someone identified its value and used it. There is a lot of strength in agro-products. If tomatoes are produced in surplus, the prices fall and the market for tomatoes comes down. Tomatoes perish within 2-3 days. However, if those tomatoes are processed and ketchup is made and sealed in a nice bottle, it will not perish for several months. It will be sold in the world market. Our farmers too will not incur loss. Just as milk processing has empowered our farmers; we need to push the processing and value addition of agricultural products in the future. Therefore, the central government is working in this direction by strengthening agricultural production in the country under the Kisan Sampada Yojana.


    Once I had told something to the workers of Amreli and Banas Dairies and they had taken the work forward. Probably others too have followed it, but I am not aware of that. I had told them that just like the white revolution, we must start a sweet revolution. And our farmer brothers in the milk cooperative must be trained in beekeeping. Then we can purchase honey along with milk. We can use a similar packaging for honey. Both the Dairies in Amreli and Banas districts are making a huge contribution towards honey production. Honey production in India has increased manifold and is being exported to several countries. Even if a part of the honey is not sold and is consumed within the household, it will benefit the children in their nourishment. No extra effort is required. Even if the field is small, installing a solar panel will help them to earn extra money. Within the same field, if certain tools for beekeeping are installed, this will ensure even greater income. Therefore, in order to double the income of the farmers by 2022 that will mark 75 years of Indian independence, we are trying to add several new initiatives.


    I hope that we associate ourselves with it. Earlier I had put forth one thought but was not successful with its implementation. But we can accomplish it. Just as a wonderful job has been done in the direction of take-home ration and the creation of Baal Amul for the nourishment of children, we can do a significant work in the direction of mid-day meals. A big cooking plant can be set up in the villages from where milk is fetched. Whenever a vehicle goes to fetch milk in the morning, it can carry good quality tiffin for mid-day meal for the school students in the nearby schools. The food will be hot cooked and the next day the empty tiffin boxes will be returned along with the containers of milk. This can be carried out without extra transportation cost. The government allocates funds for schools in the areas of milk cooperatives. We just need management.


    I want to reassure you that just like the mid-day meal scheme got a shot in the arm by Iskon, our Dairies can also deliver food to these children in the best possible manner under this system. This is am example of multiple utility of a single system. If we formulate schemes keeping this in mind, I can confidently say that we will not remain limited to a few sectors and will create an impact on every area of life.


    I have seen that throughout the country there is usually a conflict over pasture land. People encroach upon those lands. But our brothers of Dharmaj had formed cooperative society years ago and developed pastures based on the cooperative. They used to give home delivery of green grass on a daily basis. People would order on the basis of the requirement for their animals and they would make the delivery. And with that income they started the work of modernization and development of the pasture land.


    In short, the thoughts of the people here comprise the essence and values of the cooperatives. How we can make the cooperative more broad-based? How can we link it to other things? How shall we work to take it forward?


    Once again my best wishes to the Amul family, my progressive sons of the farmers who belong to Charottar while commemorating the great Sardar Vallabh bhai Patel who had developed this amazing tradition and also the people associated with the same tradition of the cooperatives. I dedicate these schemes to Gujarat and to India with a lot of pride. I reassure you on behalf of the Central government that it will never step back in carrying these projects forward. The central government will walk hand in hand and will be a partner in its progress. Thank you all! Say along with me loudly -


    Victory to Mother India!


    What happened? This is my Charottar. Voice should not be so meek.


    Victory to Mother India!


    That's it! Well done!


    Thank you!


    ***


    AKT/SH/IG/MG/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548002) Visitor Counter : 741
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi