      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Ananthkumar urges State to present Status Paper on utilization of Centre’s assistance
      Posted On: 11 JUN 2017 6:49PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Ananthkumar urges State to present Status Paper on utilization of Centre’s assistance


    BENGALURU: Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri Ananthkumar urged the State Government to present a status paper on utilization of Centre’s assistance to various fields, in the ongoing session.


    Inaugurating a 3-day Making of Developed India Festival - `MODI Fest’ at Adugodi today he said, the Centre has sanctioned Rs.8,000 crore to the state for different highway projects and Rs.4,500 crore for railway sector. Though the NDA Government has provided Rs.4,600 crore during last three years towards drought relief, state has not distributed more than Rs.500 crore, he alleged.


    He said, the amendment bill which seeks to provide constitutional status to Backward Class Commission would be tabled in the Rajya Sabha again during Monsoon Session. So far 1,540 generic medicine stores have been established across 450 districts and the Centre is ready to set up over 200 Jan Aushadhi Centres including one store each in every ward in Bengaluru.


    Ananthkumar said, under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi India has emerged as super power in all frontier technologies and MODI Fest are being organized in more than 500 districts across the country to depict the achievements of NDA Government during last three years and also various development programmes.


    Members of Sthree Shakthi Groups in Gujarath have earned around Rs.11 crore by collecting and selling neem seeds for production of need-coated urea, he added.


    Former Dy Chief Minister R. Ashok, Former Minister Govind Karjol, MLAs B.N. Vijayakumar, S. Raghu,, MLCs V. Somanna, Ramachandra Gowda, Leher Singh and Tara Anuradha participated.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492568) Visitor Counter : 30
    
    
      Read this release in: Kannada