      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Will continue the dialogic process with all states and solve problems by taking policy decisions: Environment Minister after discussion with Maharashtra CM
      Posted On: 07 JUN 2019 5:50PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Union Minister for Environment, Forests & Climate Change, Shri Prakash Javadekar held discussions with the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Devendra Fadnavis and State Government officials on environment and forest-related issues in Mumbai today. The Minister said that majority of pending issues majority of the demands and projects of the state of Maharashtra which were pending during the period 2004 – 2014 have been resolved during the last five years. He said that the Government is moving ahead fast to ensure environment protection as well as development of the nation. The dialogic process initiated today will be continued, to solve problems through policy decisions, said the Minister.


    Briefing the media after the meeting, the Union Minister said:


    “I have started a dialogue with all states; in the discussion with the Maharashtra CM and other officials, I discussed pending issues and proposals which must be addressed immediately, concerning environment, forests and climate change. I am very happy that majority of the demands and projects of the state of Maharashtra which were pending during the period 2004 – 2014 have been resolved during the last five years. This includes permission for the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Nhavaseva bridge, Navi Mumbai airport; a number of different permissions for Mumbai Metro; Mumbai – Goa Expressway, coastal roads and recycling plant in Malad. We also made changes in Coastal Regulation Zone Notification so that families leaving in those areas can avail of FSI regulations applicable for city areas. A lot of such pro-poor, pro-people and environment-friendly measures have been taken. A law has been framed that if one acre of mangrove is cut down, 10 acres of mangroves need to be grown.


    We also want to ensure that the ecotourism potential of the nation is tapped adequately.


    We are moving ahead to protect environment as well as ensure rapid progress of our country. I will take up this dialogic process with all the states, and we will solve problems by taking policy decisions.”


    Speaking on the #SelfiewithSapling campaign, the Minister said:


    “We have received thousands of selfies with saplings; people have participated in large numbers and we are seeking to ensure that more and more people participate. Many states too are taking up this drive. Planting of saplings will continue till around 5 th August due to variability in the planting season. Like Swachh Bharat, we want to make Plant India a national movement of the people.


    People are now beginning to understand that unless we correct our lifestyle, it will affect our lives adversely. Given the amount of oxygen we need to inhale in a lifetime, each person needs to plant and grow at least ten trees and ensure that they remain safe. This is the duty of every citizen; we want to inculcate that spirit in the people.”


    ***


    RT/DJM/IJ/MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573678) Visitor Counter : 422
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi