      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Digital Mode of Data Collection to be tested in Census 2021
      
      Training of Trainers for Census of India 2021 held in Pune

      Posted On: 12 JUN 2019 5:51PM by PIB Mumbai

    "Pre-test of Census 2021 would be extremely challenging, as the digital mode of data collection would be tested in the field for the first time. The digital mode of data collection, if adopted in Census 2021 will result in faster publication of Census data, helping policy formulation and research."


    This was stated by Registrar General & Census Commissioner, Shri Vivek Joshi at the valedictory function of a training programme for Master Trainers for Census 2021, held at Yashvantrao Chavan Academy of Development Administration (Yashada), Pune during 3 rd to 11 th June 2019. The training was organized by the Office of Registrar General and Census Commissioner, India, as part of the preparation for the mammoth administrative exercise, 'Census of India 2021'.


    

    The training was inaugurated by Director, Census Operations, Maharashtra, Smt. Rashmi S. Zagade on 3 rd June, 2019. The training was imparted by National Trainers who were trained at New Delhi during May 2019. Master Trainers from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Telangana and Goa were trained during this programme. The Master Trainers would in turn train the field functionaries for the pre-test.


    The pre-test is the complete dress rehearsal of the entire process of Census; it is proposed to be conducted in the selected sample units all over India, during August - September 2019.


    The ensuing Census would revolutionise the collection of Census data by testing the digital mode of collection. Delivering the keynote address, Smt. Rashmi S. Zagade said that the pre-test has to be done with utmost care as this serves as a pilot and helps in finalising the instruments, methods and processing of the actual Census.


    On the last day of training, the Master Trainers conducted field trials in selected rural and urban parts of Pune District.


    

    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574044) Visitor Counter : 1029
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi