      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB and MMPS jointly organize International Day of Yoga Programme
      
      'Yoga is multidimensional, there is much more to it than Asanas'

      Posted On: 18 JUN 2019 6:40PM by PIB Mumbai

    In the run-up to the International Day of Yoga 2019, a programme to build greater awareness and improve public participation in Yoga was organized in Mumbai today. The programme was organized jointly by Press Information Bureau and Mumbai Marathi Patrakar Sangh (MMPS), at the office of MMPS. Ms. Ruchi Gulati, a senior Yoga teacher of The Yoga Institute, Santacruz was the Chief Guest for the occasion. Members of the Mumbai media fraternity were present on the occasion, apart from programme hosts Director General (West Zone), Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Shri R. N. Mishra; President, MMPS, Shri Narendra Wable; Secretary, MMPS, Shri Sandeep Chavan; and Joint Secretary, MMPS, Shri Suresh Wadvalkar.


    The Chief Guest stated that Yoga can contribute to our health and can be a very effective tool in reducing illness. She said that often, people start practising Yoga when doctors advise them to do so, in order to reduce stress and improve health. She instead exhorted the audience to make Yoga a part of their lives, so that they do not even need to visit the doctor. Ms. Gulati said that Yoga is multidimensional and that it is much more than Asanas. She said it will contribute to a healthy mind and a healthy body, and will lead to a positive attitude and a dutiful life. She further said that Yoga should be practised not only on International Day of Yoga, but 365 days a year. She said it will lead to positive self-esteem and holistic well-being.


    The Government of India has instituted the first Antarashtriya Yoga Diwas Media Samman (AYDMS) to mark the contribution of media in spreading the message of Yoga, said Director General (West Zone), Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Shri R. N. Mishra. The DG said that 33 Sammans will be given to print and electronic media, for contribution in 22 Indian languages.


    The DG highlighted that the declaration of IDY came at the behest of the Prime Minister during his address to UN General Assembly on September 27, 2014, where he said it is a holistic approach to health and well-being. The DG requested the media fraternity to contribute to the cause of Yoga, observing that many people are not yet aware of the way Yoga can change their lives.


    Shri Narendra Wable, President, MMPS thanked PIB for partnering with the Patrakar Sangh and taking this initiative. He said that the journalist community will work with the Government in spreading the message of Yoga among more people and help contribute to increased adoption of India's gift to the world.


    Sandeep Chavan, Secretary, MMPS too addressed the audience. Appreciating the initiative and the importance of Yoga, he said that more such joint initiatives can be taken by PIB and MMPS.


    Assistant Director (Media &Communication), PIB Mumbai, Shri Nitin Sapre delivered the Vote of Thanks. He exhorted everyone present, especially the media, to continue contributing to the cause.


    The Chief Guest also held a short Yoga session for the participants, guiding them through some Asanas and a Pranayaam session.


    ***


    DJM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1574880) Visitor Counter : 254
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi