      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Celebration of “Statistics Day” in Mumbai
      Posted On: 27 JUN 2019 2:49PM by PIB Mumbai


    Field Operation Division of National Sample Survey Office at Mumbai is celebrating Statistics Day along with the faculty and students pursuing their studies in the field of statistics. Essay and quiz competitions, seminars and lectures are being organized. The concluding session of “Statistics Day” celebrations will be organized from 10.30 AM onwards on 29th June 2019 at National Sample Survey Office, C.G.O. Complex, A/2-3 Wing, 4th floor, Belapur, Navi Mumbai. Senior professors from different colleges and renowned personalities from the field of statistics will be the guests of honour on the occasion.


    The Government has been celebrating the Statistics Day, to popularize the use of statistics in everyday life and sensitize the public as to how statistics helps in shaping and framing policies. It has been designated as one of the Special Days to be celebrated at the national level and is celebrated on the birth anniversary of Prof. P C Mahalanobis, on 29th June, in recognition of his invaluable contribution in establishing the National Statistical System.


    A series of events have been planned across the country to mark the occasion. The main function will be held on 29th June, 2019 at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi and will be chaired by Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation and Ministry of Planning, Shri Rao Inderjit Singh. The event is being jointly organized by the Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation (MoSPI) and Indian Statistical Institute.


    The theme of Statistics Day 2019 is “Sustainable Development Goals”. The theme has been chosen for intensive and focused discussions towards filling the data gaps and improvement of timelines/quality in SDGs.


    MoSPI is responsible for the development of National Indicator Framework (NIF) for measuring the progress of the SDGs and associated targets at the national level. NIF will give appropriate direction to the policy makers and the implementers of various schemes and programs. Presentations/ discussions on challenges and way forward for achieving SDGs are being organized by MoSPI. The Baseline Report on SDGs and handbook of National Indicator Framework (NIF) will be released.


    About Prof. P.C. Mahalanobis:


    Prof. P.C. Mahalanobis is the doyen of Indian Statistical system. He believed that statistics should be an integral part of the dynamics of national planning. His role as a planner prompted him to play a pioneering role in the organized collection of official statistics. He established the National Sample Survey in 1950 which still remain as the premier agency of the Government of India for collection of basic statistics. He also helped in setting up of Central Statistical Office as an apex body for co- ordination of all statistical activities in India.


    Prof.P.C.Mahalanobis's contribution as statistician was recognized all over the world. He was elected chairman of the United Nations Sub Commission on Statistical Sampling in 1947 and he held the post till 1951. He has also received highest national honour, “Padma Vibhushan” from the President of India in 1968.


    Also read: “Statistics Day” will be celebrated on 29th June, 2019


    ***


    DJM/IJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575974) Visitor Counter : 781