      Ministry of Shipping

      NMDC Committee celebrates “The Day of the Seafarer”
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2019 6:27PM by PIB Mumbai


    Under the aegis of Director General of Shipping, “The Day of the Seafarer” was celebrated with full fanfare at Swatantrya Veer Savarkar Auditorium, Mumbai on 25th June 2019. This is the 9th edition of the Seafarer’s Day celebration in India. The Theme of the year is ‘I Am on Board with Gender Equality’.


    Dr. Malini Shankar, Former Director General of Shipping graced the occasion as the Chief Guest. Ms. Vijaya Rahatkar, Chairperson, Maharashtra State Commission for Women and Lt. Cdr. Bidisha Pandey, Logistics Officer, Sagar Prahar Bal, Indian Navy were the Guests of Honour. The dignitaries told the gathering that a change of mindset was required to provide greater opportunities for women to utilize their potential in various areas.


    Shri Amitabh Kumar, DG Shipping; Capt. Anoop Kumar Sharma, CMD SCI; Shri SPS Jaggi, Chairman NMDC Committee (Mumbai) & Director (P&A) SCI also graced the occasion and enlightened the audience with their words of wisdom and expertise in the field.


    The occasion was celebrated in the presence of distinguished guests from the shipping fraternity, including family members of seafarers in great numbers. A panel discussion on the theme was organized under the Chairpersonship of Mrs. Malini Shankar. Thereafter, a cultural programme by seafarers was held. The Maritime professionals from the industry, along with students from Maritime Training academies, were also felicitated for their outstanding achievements in various fields.


    25th June is celebrated every year by the maritime world as “The Day of the Seafarer”. The day is an occasion to show respect to the men and women who bravely lead their lives at the high seas. It is also an opportunity to celebrate the qualities and merits of these men and women, who contribute largely to the economy of the country.


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575864) Visitor Counter : 258