      Ministry of Railways

      Central Railway participates in International Yoga Day
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 5:09PM by PIB Mumbai


    Officers and Staff of Central Railway actively participated in International Yoga Day at various locations throughout Central Railway.


    Shri S.K. Pankaj, Senior Deputy General Manager; Shri N. Swaminathan, Principal Chief Personnel Officer; Shri S.P. Vavre, Principal Chief Electrical Engineer; Shri D K Singh, Principal Chief Operations Manager; Shri Aditya Sharma, Principal Chief Materials Manager; Shri S.K. Jain, Divisional Railway Manager, Mumbai Division; Shri Sunil Udasi, Chief Public Relations Officer; other officers and staff of Central Railway participated in the Yoga Day in Central Railway Auditorium at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus on 21.6.2019.


    On this occasion, Yog Guru Shri Manoharlal Gupta from the Art of Living Foundation demonstrated various Yog asanas and guided and helped those participating in the event.


    Officers and staff of all the 5 divisions of Central Railway participated in the International Yoga Day under the guidance of prominent Yoga teachers.


    Shri S.K. Jain, Divisional Railway Manager, Mumbai Division and other divisional officers also participated in the Yoga day event at Nirmal Park. The Mumbai Division of CR organised Yoga Sessions at Diesel Loco Shed, Kalyan & Kurla, RPF Division Mulund and several other locations.


    Shri M S Uppal, Divisional Railway Manager, Nagpur Division along with other branch officers celebrated Yoga day at Samudaik Bhawan, Ajni on 21.6.2019 by performing yoga asanas


    Shri R.K. Yadav, Divisional Railway Manager, Bhusaval Division along with other branch officers celebrated Yoga day at Railway Sports Ground, near Railway school, Bhusaval on 21.6.2019 by performing yoga asanas.


    Officers and staff of the Railway Workshop Bhusaval, also organised Yoga day at the Workshop premises.


    Shri Hitendra Malhotra, Divisional Railway Manager, Solapur Division along with other branch officers celebrated Yoga day at Siddeshwar Railway Officers’ Club Auditorium and also at Dr. B R Ambedkar Railway Institute ground, Solapur on 21.6.2019 by performing yoga asanas.


    Shri Milind Deouskar, Divisional Railway Manager, Pune Division along with branch officers celebrated Yoga day at Community Hall, Tadiwala Road, Pune on 21.6.2019 by performing yoga asanas.


    Yoga Day was also celebrated by the RPF Training Institute, Nasik Road and various units of RPF throughout Central Railway.


    ***


    Sunil Udasi, Chief Public Relations Officer, Central Railway

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575224) Visitor Counter : 216