      Ministry of Culture

      India’s first global Mega Science Exhibition ‘Vigyan Samagam’ in Mumbai draws around 1,30,000 visitors and counting; becomes a hallmark of success in its first edition
      
      The Exhibition in Mumbai to end on 7th July
      
      Vigyan Samagam to reach Bengaluru, Kolkata and New Delhi after Mumbai in its 11-month journey
      
      Ever increasing footfall from school children to college students to families showcases people's rising interest in the Science Exhibition
      Posted On: 24 JUN 2019 5:54PM by PIB Mumbai


      Mumbai, June 24, 2019


      Drawing around 1,30,000 visitors till date from all age groups, India’s first ever, global, Mega-Science Exhibition, ‘Vigyan Samagam’ has become a hallmark of success in its first edition that commenced in Mumbai at the Nehru Science Centre, from the 8 th of May, 2019. The Exhibition in Mumbai will end on 7 th July.


      Organised jointly by the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Department of Science and Technology (DST) and the National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), Ministry of Culture, Government of India, this two-month long, first edition of Vigyan Samagam has successfully brought students, young science enthusiasts, eminent and budding scientists, academia and industry on a common platform, as the number of visitors indicate.


      The tenure of two months in Mumbai was planned to allow a wide cross-section of visitors including academia, industry and general public sufficient time to explore and experience this first-of-a-kind exhibition. Owing to summer vacations, many students, not only from Mumbai but also from other parts of Maharashtra, could not visit Vigyan Samagam. Now that the schools have re-opened, the school students and families are queuing up for the Exhibition in increasing numbers. On the basis of the footfall information obtained by the Nehru Science Centre, around 1,30,000 people have visited the exhibition and the number is expected to touch 2,00,000 by the time of end of the first edition.


      During the on-going Exhibition, the visitors have been able to witness the presence of the world's most prestigious mega–science projects such as the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN), ‘Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research’ (FAIR), India-based ‘Neutrino Observatory’ (INO), ‘International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor’ (ITER), ‘Laser Interferometer Gravitational - Wave Observatory’ (LIGO), ‘Thirty Meter Telescope’ (TMT) and ‘Square Kilometer Array’ (SKA). The Industrial exposition witnessed great enthusiasm from several industry partners of various mega-science projects. The visitors have been attending various interesting sessions organised during the Exhibition and interacting with the scientists, as well. The organisers, DAE, DST and NCSM, have arranged innovative and engaging activities for school students such as quiz contests, Selfie with Vigyan Samagam, Science Skits, Cyclothon, blog-writing and drawing competition, model-making etc. These activities are aimed at creating interest among the students about Science and thereby establishing science as a career option.


      Delighted with the success of Vigyan Samagam, Shri Ranajit Kumar, Chairman, Apex Committee, Vigyan Samagam and Head, NCPW Wing, DAE, said, “Such encouraging response by visitors is a testimony to the fact that Vigyan Samagam has brought Mega Science a step closer to the society.”


      Addressing the gathering, Shri Arun Srivastava, Secretary Atomic Energy Commission and Head, ICPD, NCPW, DAE and Convener of Apex Committee said, “Vigyan Samagam has been successful in underlining the value and impact of fundamental research to a broad cross-section of stakeholders like students, academia and industries providing a unique Science communication platform.” He further added, “The exhibition at Mumbai gave us feedback which we have and will continue to improvise upon. I would also like to congratulate the press & media for helping us in spreading the awareness about India’s participation in Mega Science Projects and attract young people to visit our exhibition. Visitor footfall numbers are a testimony to the same.”


      Shri S. P. Pathak, Director, Central Research & Training Laboratory, NCSM, Kolkata and Member, Apex Committee said that the massive footfall into the Exhibition and the spectrum of audience has been a great morale booster as we look forward to upcoming venues at Bengaluru, Kolkata and Delhi.


      Shri Gaurav Aggarwal, Scientist-E, Mega Science Division, DST expressed happiness at the huge response received by Vigyan Samagam right in its 1 st Edition. This went on to show that the content of the exhibition and the manner of its presentation had been imaginatively done.


      Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST has also conveyed his happiness that such large number of visitors of all age groups have been exposed to the challenges and excitements of the scientific ventures that aim to answer some of the most fundamental scientific questions related to the structure and evolution of the Universe. He has congratulated the DAE, DST, NCSM teams and also the Project teams for improvising upon the content of the interactive sessions.


      Shri K. N. Vyas, Secretary, DAE and Chairman, AEC has conveyed the congratulatory message for the team efforts of DAE, DST and NCSM in making this mega-science exhibition in Mumbai a grand success. He further added that the Projects India is working at equal playing field with the developed countries on are able to absorb cutting-edge technologies and some of them may have spin-offs which could be of use to the society at large.


      After Mumbai, Vigyan Samagam will be launched at Bengaluru on 29 th July, 2019 and shall be open to public till 28 th September, 2019 at the Visvesvaraya Industrial and Technological Museum. It will then move to Kolkata from 4 th November, 2019 to 31 st December, 2019 at the Science City. In its final leg, it will reach New Delhi at The National Science Centre from 21 st January, 2020 and will close on 20 th March, 2020. Thereafter it will remain as a permanent exhibition in New Delhi and will be taken care-off by NCSM.


      Till 7 th July 2019, the Exhibition will still be open at Mumbai including all Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays during 10 am to 6 PM.


    ***


    DJM/MAS/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575450) Visitor Counter : 413
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi