      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      NSO, Nagpur celebrates 13th Statistics Day
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2019 8:58PM by PIB Mumbai


    In recognition of the notable contribution made by Prof. Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis in the fields of economic planning and statistical development in the post independent era, the Government of India has been celebrating 29 th June every year, coinciding with his birth anniversary, as Statistics Day. The National Statistical Office (NSO), Nagpur under the Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation, has celebrated Annual Statistics day today, jointly with Data Quality Assurance Division (DQAD), Nagpur. The function has been inaugurated and presided over by Shri Anil Patil, Dy. Director General, DQAD, Nagpur.


    Shri Srinivas Uppala, Director, NSO (Field Operations Division), Regional Office, Nagpur in his welcome address invited all the dignitaries, guests, officers and officials. He said that the 17 colored blocks in the logo represents the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Shri M.S.R. Raju, Joint Director, NSO(FOD), Zonal Office, Nagpur in his address stressed upon the important role of statistics in calculation of GDP. He briefly elaborated the important contribution of Prof. P.C. Mahalanobis in nation-building and policy formulation. He also emphasized that there is need of devotion and hard work to achieve the goals of development set by Government of India. The Chief Guest, Dr. Vinayak Deshpande, Dean, Faculty of Commerce and Management, Registrar(I/c), R.S.T.M., Nagpur University addressed the gathering and explained the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by Govt. which are to be achieved by 2030, by giving various examples.


    Shri Anil Patil, Dy. Director General, NSO(DQAD), Nagpur in his speech expressed his concern and views on SDGs earmarked as the theme of Statistics Day for the year 2019. He expressed that the estimation of implementation of various planning will only be possible after achieving the goals of Sustainable Development.


    The Special Guest Smt. Shalini Bhoyar, Director General(retd.), expressed her concern about India's rankings in SDGs. Shri T.K. Basu, Additional Director General (retd.) correlated the exising various schemes of Govt. which are presently operative and helpful to achieve the different 17 goals of SDGs. Later, crossword puzzle and quiz contest ware held on this occasion. Prizes have been distributed to the winners and runners-up of competitions. A large number of Officers / Officials and students from various colleges were present on this occasion. The event concluded with the vote of thanks.


    ***


    PIB Nagpur / D.WANKHEDE/A.AWASTHI

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576345) Visitor Counter : 265
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi