      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      NSSO, Mumbai celebrates Statistics Day
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2019 6:47PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Regional Office, Mumbai of National Statistical Office (NSO), Field Operations Division (FOD) – the premier field survey office under the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, Government of India - celebrated Statistics Day at its office in Navi Mumbai today. The Government of India has been celebrating the Statistics Day, to popularize the use of statistics in everyday life and sensitize the public as to how statistics helps in shaping and framing policies. It is celebrated on the birth anniversary of Prof. P C Mahalanobis, on 29th June, in recognition of his invaluable contribution in establishing the National Statistical System. The theme of Statistics Day this year is Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), keeping in view India’s commitment towards achieving these goals.


    Dr. Shashikala G Wanjari, Vice Chancellor of SNDT Women's University was the Chief Guest for the occasion. Addressing the gathering, Dr. Wanjari highlighted the need for a discourse on SDG 5, namely gender equality. She said that though Indian culture believes in gender equality, the need for emphasizing and working towards it arises due to gaps in education and thought processes. Giving the example of Maharshi Karve who was a pioneer in women's empowerment and education, Dr. Wanjari noted that in 1916, the literacy rate was only 1.8%, but it has now become around 75%.


    Referring to the Vedic mantra of सर्वे भवन्तु सुखिनः सर्वे संतु निरामय:, she said that the power of thinking about the happiness, welfare and development of all is inherent in our personality; however, we do not often utilize it. She further said that the correct set of assumptions, facts and figures should be available, in order to make progress in the march towards gender equality.


    Research Officer & Deputy Director, Directorate of Economics and Statistics, Government of Maharashtra, Shri. Sunil Suryawanshi explained the initiatives undertaken by Government of Maharashtra in implementing the various SDGs. He emphasised that the Government of Maharashtra ranks 4th in achieving targets under SDG set up by NITI Aayog. He also informed that the Government of Maharashtra has implemented 13 parameters out of 17 SDGs in various schemes.


    Deputy Director, MSME-DI, Ms. Bhagyashree Sathe highlighted the career opportunities related to field of statistics.


    Deputy Director General, NSSO(FOD), Maharashtra (West) Region, Mumbai, Smt. Supriya Roy; Additional Director, GSDA, Pune, Dr. Satish Umrikar; Joint Director, DES, Maharashtra, Dr. Jitendra Choudhary and Ms. Deepika Verma, Assistant Director, NSO(FOD), RO, Mumbai were also present on this occasion.


    Also read:


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation and Ministry of Planning inaugurated Statistics Day 2019


    ***


    DJM/BG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576326) Visitor Counter : 270
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi