      PIB Headquarters

      EPFO introduces Single Page Composite Claim Form consolidating multiple Claim Forms
      Self-certification introduced doing away with requirements for various certificates for withdrawals from EPFO

      Posted On: 17 MAR 2017 3:42PM by PIB Chennai

    With a view to make its services available to its stakeholders in an efficient and transparent manner, EPFO introduced Universal Account Number (UAN). Subscribers, who seed Aadhaar and Bank account details, to their UAN have the facility to submit claim forms directly to EPFO without the attestation of employers by preferring claims in Forms No. 19 (UAN), 10C (UAN) & 31(UAN).


    To add further convenience, these forms now have been further simplified and replaced with a single page Composite Claim Form (Aadhar). This new Composite Claim Form (Aadhar), can be submitted without the attestation of employers.


    For Subscribers who are yet to seed Aadhaar and Bank details with their UAN also new Composite Claim Form (Non-Aadhar) replaces the existing Forms No. 19, 10C & 31. The new Single page Composite Claim Form (Non-Aadhar), can be submitted with the attestation of employers.

    2. Self-certification replaces various certificates prescribed at present. The Composite Claim Form (Aadhar) / Composite Claim Form (Non-Aadhar) now comes with self-certification. Following withdrawals under various provisions have been made operational.

    I. Para 68B : The “New Declaration Form” required to be appended with Form No. 31 for housing loan/purchase of site/house/flat or for construction/addition, alteration in existing house/repayment of housing loan is discontinued. Requirement of “Utilization Certificate” has also been dispensed with. No document would be required to be submitted by the subscriber in respect of these partial withdrawals.

    II. Para 68H : Grant of advances in case of closure of factories: No document would be required to be submitted by the subscriber.

    III. Para 68K: Marriage advance & for availing advance for post-matriculation education of children: No document, including marriage card, would be required to be submitted by the subscribers.

    IV. Para 68L: Advance in abnormal condition: Member may self-certify that his property has been damaged. No document would be required to be submitted by the subscriber.


    Submission of Composite Claim Form (Aadhar) / (Composite Claim form (Non-Aadhar) duly signed by the EPF subscriber shall be construed as ‘self-certification’ for the above said partial withdrawals, for which no document would be required to be submitted to the EPFO offices.


    The detailed instruction in this regard and the format of Composite Claim forms can be accessed here: http://www.epfindia.gov.in/site_docs/PDFs/Circulars/Y2016-2017/Composite_Claim_Forms_31792.pdf


    

    
    (Release ID: 1484759) Visitor Counter : 96