      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Kiren Rijiju attends 55th Anniversary Parade of SSB
      Posted On: 24 DEC 2018 4:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) celebrated its 55 th Anniversary Parade at its 25 th Battalion, Ghitorni, here today. The Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Kiren Rijiju took the salute of the parade and inspected the impressive parade with Director General, SSB Shri S S Deswal. After the parade, the Shri Kiren Rijiju awarded President’s Police Medal for distinguished service and Police Medal for meritorious service in acknowledgment of their service to the Nation. Later, there was a display of SSB troops, Dog squad, Dare Devil team and other arts by SSB personnel.


    Shri Kiren Rijiju conveyed his wishes to the SSB for the Anniversary Day celebrations and congratulated the award winners for their dedication. He applauded the SSB for serving the Nation with the motto of “Seva, Suraksha and Bandutva”, wherever it has been deployed since its inception in the year 1963. He said that SSB has become the second largest Border Guarding Force of the country. He appreciated SSB for operationalization of its all 73 Battalions in a given span of time. He also said that Government has approved creation of 650 posts for the intelligence set-up of Sashastra Seema Bal.


    The Minister commended the achievements of SSB against perpetrators of various crimes, drug peddlers, illegal arms, wildlife and prohibited items on the border. He also appreciated the efforts of SSB against the menace & evils of human trafficking. He expressed his happiness that SSB has signed an MoU with National Skill Development Corporation to impart training to the victims rescued from human traffickers and making them self-reliant.


    Shri Rijiju said that SSB is the first Border Guarding Force of the Nation to induct women in the year 2007 for border guarding duties. He said that SSB has been performing its duties to guard India’s borders with friendly neighbouring countries, which is a challenging task in itself. He added that SSB is also performing its duties in other parts of country such as J&K, LWE affected areas, and natural calamities hit areas, among others. SSB has its 2 Bns deployed in NDRF, he added. He also applauded SSB for its Civic Action programme, contribution to Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao programme and Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan etc. He also congratulated the sportspersons of SSB who have won medals at various national and international events.


    Shri S S Deswal, Director General, SSB spoke about the glorious history and initiatives of SSB since its inception. He also paid tributes to the personnel who made supreme sacrifice for the service of the nation. He said that presently the SSB has 18 sectors, 73 Bns and 710 BoPs. He further said that the jawans are working with full dedication in extremely difficult and far areas, which are lacking in basic facilities. The DG said that civil wing officials of SSB will be transferred to IB next year, which will open new opportunities to them. He further said that there are about 2,000 women personnel in the Force and SSB is making efforts to provide 5% representation to women. Shri Deswal said that SSB women personnel are being deployed along with Army Bn. to UN Mission of Congo. Speaking about the achievements of last year, the DG said that SSB has made seizures of more than Rs 260 crores and apprehended more than 6,500 people. SSB has rescued 752 victims from 254 human traffickers in last one year, he added.


    On this occasion, Shri Rijiju also released the 55th Anniversary issue of ‘SSB Samachar’.


    The SSB parade was attended by the Chief of Nepal Armed Police Force Shri Shailendra Khanal, Deputy Chief of Mission, Bhutan, Shri Sonam Tobgay, DGs of CAPFs and other dignitaries.


    **********


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557223) Visitor Counter : 635