      PIB Headquarters

      Improvement in Branch Efficiency of IOB
      Posted On: 24 APR 2019 5:35PM by PIB Chennai


    Indian Overseas Bank is consistently reporting improved operating profitsquarter over quarter and one of the contributing factor is decline in number of loss incurring branches (LIB). The objective of any organization is to make all the business units as standalone profit centers. Profitability of the bank strongly correlates with branch efficiency. The continuous follow up from the administrative layers and efforts taken at the branch level has helped IOB to reduce the number of loss incurring branches from 742 in March’15 to 718 in Mar’16 to 536 in Mar’17 and further brought down to 371 branches in Mar’18, and 157 as on Mar’19. The reduction in the number of LIBs can be attributed to the consciousand continuousefforts taken by the Banktowards reduction of operating expenditure and improving overall operational efficiency. As of March’19 most of the IOB branches stand self-sustaining. The percentage of loss incurring branches has drastically reduced from the position of 22% of total Branches in 2015 to less than 5% in March’19.Specific directionsare given to LIBs on focussed activities/functions (e.g. improvement in CASA share, NPA reduction, directed lending etc) to come out of LIB. The steps taken include rationalization of branches (Branch rationalization involves merger/closure of the branches without affecting the customer service), containing of administrative expenses by way of reduced rent, electricity, space audit, redeployment of staff etc.


    The bank would continue to focus closely on the loss incurring branches towards reporting a profitable trend. Analysis is being carried out on all the factors towards overall profitability which includes staff optimization, strict control on overhead expenses, higher focus on recovery initiatives and camps, comparison of business level with peer bank branches in the command area. Higher thrust on Retail & MSME lending is given to improve the yield apart from diversification of the risk. Branches incurring loss due to higher NPA are advised to focus more on recovery apart from incremental lending to thrust areas of MSME and Retail. While commenting about LIB, IOB’s Executive Director, Shri A K Srivastava said “ Banks’ focus is to achieve profitability from grass root level. Reduction of LIB is a testimony to this effort”.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571125) Visitor Counter : 60
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil