      PIB Headquarters

      MSME REFORMS TO UNLOCK ECONOMIC POTENTIAL OF MANIPUR
      
      PIB AND ROB IMPHAL HOST WEBINAR ON IMPACT OF ECONOMIC REFORMS ON MSME

      Posted On: 17 JUL 2020 4:48PM by PIB Imphal

    Press Information Bureau and ROB Imphal today hosted a webinar on the impact of Government of India's Economic Reform Package on MSME sector. The Webinar was addressed by Shri Nandkishore Singh, Asst Director, Imphal Regional Office, Department of MSME. It was attended by media persons, Prof. Dr Chinglen Maisnam, Department of Economics, Manipur University and officials of PIB, ROF and FOBs of the region.


    In his welcome address, Shri Abhishek Dayal, Director, PIB Imphal said that in a historic move Government of India notified a new method of classification of MSMEs based on investment and turnover. The whole idea behind the reform is to make the MSMEs break barriers and grow. Government has also eased the entry rules and no papers are now required for registering an MSME under Udyam scheme, he added.


    It was highlighted in the deliberations that Manipur will be a major beneficiary of this reform as it is a state with the highest number of registered MSMEs in the entire North East, he said that a vibrant MSME sector is a testimony of the enterprising nature of Manipuri people. It was observed that it is time that media, officials and the experts get together to educate the people on the ways in which the new reforms can be used for their benefit.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Nandkishore Singh, Assistant Director, Department of MSME, Imphal Regional Office said that some of the Manipuri entrepreneurs registered with MSME Department are doing exceedingly well, especially in the fields of horticulture, handicrafts, food processing and animal husbandry. He explained the new process of registration and ways to benefit from the credit line offered to the entrepreneurs.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1639348) Visitor Counter : 7
    
    
      Read this release in: Manipuri