      PIB Headquarters

      DOUBLING OF FARMERS' INCOME BY 2022 IN NE REGION ACHIEVABLE: VC, CAU
      
      PIB AND ROB IMPHAL HOST WEBINAR ON IMPACT OF ATMANIRBHAR PACKAGE ON AGRICULTURE

      Posted On: 23 JUL 2020 12:30PM by PIB Imphal

    Press Information Bureau and ROB Imphal today hosted a webinar on the impact of Government of India's Atmanirbhar Package on Agriculture.


    Inaugurating the seminar, Shri S N Pradhan, ADG, PIB and ROB Imphal said that Atmanirbhar package has substantial financial allocation for agriculture sector and the number of policy initiatives taken have the potential to fully transform the lives of millions of farmers in the country. Shri Pradhan said that it is now essential to take all the information related to these reforms to the people through the media so that the farmers and the society can completely benefit from the initiatives.


    Introducing Dr M Premjit Singh, Vice Chancellor, Central Agriculture University, Imphal, Shri Pradhan said that Dr Singh is a much respected authority in the field of agriculture research who was honoured with The Young Scientist award in 1992 by DST, New Delhi for his research project “Studies on bee pollination of oilseed crops”. Dr. Singh has undertaken six research projects funded by external agencies.


    In his keynote address, Dr Premjit said that the vision of Prime Minister for doubling of farmers income by 2022 can be achieved in the North Eastern states by giving location centric scientific solutions to the farmers. Dr Premjit said that farmers of the region have to move towards double cropping of rice as good varieties have already been developed and demonstrated. He advocated using high technologies for multiplying incomes in horticulture, animal husbandry and fisheries. He said that the return of migrant labourers to the region due to Covid pandemic can be used as a boon if we shift to new agriculture practices and involve people in agro processing.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. A. Sundari, Director, Green Biotech Eco-solutions said that private sector has a huge role to play in multiplying farmers' income and government's recent initiatives will go a long way in helping enterprenuers like her expand their business and thus help more and more farmers.


    Abhishek Dayal, Director, PIB, Imphal summed up the discussion saying that the central government through Atmanirbhar Package has ensured huge capital infusion to ensure that agriculture does not suffer during the economically uncertain times. Major reforms have been announced in agriculture marketing to ensure that the sector benefits from market forces and farmers can realise best price for their labour. He said that it is time that media and agriculture entrepreneurs and professionals work together to educate the people about these measures. He thanked the participants for actively participating in the webinar.


    The regional offices and bureaus of PIB and BOC in Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh, mediapersons and agri-preneurs attended the webinar.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1640594) Visitor Counter : 18
    
    
      Read this release in: Manipuri