      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Seminar on Film Certification and Regulation of Online Content Held
      
      Government calls for wide consultations on regulation of Online Curated Content

      Posted On: 11 OCT 2019 5:00PM by PIB Mumbai

    The Bombay High Court Judge, Justice Shri Gautam Patel has said that the issue of online and digital content is a real challenge. Calling for a closer interaction of all stakeholders including the online content service provider sector, he stated that this will lead to the evolution of a structured, common, discernible and standardized system of self-regulation. He was speaking at the valedictory session of the two-day seminar on Film Certification and Regulation of Online content in Mumbai today, organized by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, in collaboration with Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FCAT). More than 100 stakeholders from the Media & Entertainment sector participated in the seminar held at Films Division, Mumbai.


    Addressing the gathering, the Secretary, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Shri Amit Khare said that the Ministry is encouraging the widest possible consultations among all stakeholders, on regulation of online content. He stated that norms, self-regulation or any other system of regulations on Online Curated Content that is devised should be implementable, widely acceptable and easily enforceable.


    Chairman, Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FCAT), Retired Chief Justice, Shri Manmohan Sarin said that how to bring about self regulation is a task which industry players have to sort out for themselves. The Chairman said that the certifying authorities should focus on the certification guidelines, without getting carried away by their personal biases, views and prejudices.


    Participating in the seminar, several delegates asked whether technology can be a distinguishable criterion in determining the ambit and nature of regulation. They also raised the technical feasibility of regulating the humongous amount of online curated content and the framework which may be adopted to enforce the same.


    ***


    DJM/NS/SC/DP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1587837) Visitor Counter : 219
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi