      Department of Atomic Energy

      110th birth anniversary of Dr. Homi Jehangir Bhabha celebrated as Founder’s Day at BARC
      
      New technologies for detection of TB and (pre)cancerous lesions are ready for transfer to the local industry: Secretary, DAE
      
      Advanced varieties of crops developed, stated Director, BARC

      Posted On: 30 OCT 2019 6:12PM by PIB Mumbai

    The 110th birth anniversary of Dr. Homi Jehangir Bhabha was celebrated as Founder’s Day at Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), here today. The daylong programme included distribution of Industrial Safety Shield and Awards and also awards for 31st Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) All-India Essay Contest.


    Speaking on the occasion,Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission and Secretary, DAE, Shri K.N.Vyas informed that in the health care sector, development of cost effective drugs for cancer care has been a priority for DAE and that 21 numbers of radiopharmaceuticals for diagnosis and therapy and radionuclide generators have been developed in the recent past. He further stated, extraction of clinical grade Yttrium-90 in 90Y-Acetate form from high level waste trials for patient care has been started, subsequent to Radio-Pharmaceutical Committee clearances. Further, Board of Radiation & Isotope Technology (BRIT), an independent unit under DAE, has introduced four new radiopharmaceuticals relating to imaging of neuro-endocrine tumours, treatment of liver, bone pain palliation and cold kit. The Chairman added that Raja Ramanna Centre for Advanced Technology (RRCAT) has come up with medical devices like ‘TuBerculoScope’ – a low cost, compact and portable optical device for rapid detection of TB and ‘OncoDiagnoscope’ – a compact and portable system for non-invasive dectection of (pre)cancerous lesions in oral cavities. “These technologies are ready for transfer to the local industry”, he said.


    In his speech, Director of BARC, Dr. A.K. Mohanty highlighted the recent achievements of BARC in agricultural, industrial and medicinal fields. Dr. Mohanty said, contribution to food security agenda of the nation has remained one of the important mission objectives of BARC. The Centre has come up with three new varieties of crops – Trombay Cowpea Mutant Variety (TC-901), Trombay Bidhan Mustard- 204(TBM -204) and Trombay Linseed Variety (L-99)- that have been released and notified by the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards Notification. These are expected to significantly enhance the production of these crops.The Director informed the audience that an eco-friendly protocol for increasing the shelf-life of mangoes has been developed and successfully tested. Also, tomatoes of Syngenta 1057 variety, when irradiated at 1.0 kGy, was found to have increased shelf-life in experiments carried out by BARC. Further, technology for efficient removal of arsenic from water has been transferred to two private entrepreneurs, informed the Director.


    The dignitaries present on the occasion included Shri A.N. Prasad, former Director of the premier Research Centre.


    ***


    DJM/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589620) Visitor Counter : 381