      PIB Headquarters

      ARCI Celebrated National Safety Day 2020
      Posted On: 05 MAR 2020 6:50PM by PIB Hyderabad


    As part of National Safety week celebrations at ARCI from 4-10 March 2020, National Safety day was celebrated on 5th March 2020 at International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials (ARCI), Balapur, Hyderabad. During the occasion, safety pledges was administered and lectures and interactive sessions were organized focusing on relevance and importance of safety in work place. As a part of celebrations safety slogan competition for employees and students were conducted and an internal safety audit report was also released during the occasion in an attempt to enhancement of safety protocols.


    In his message, Dr. G. Padmanabham, Director, ARCI emphasized that safety should evolve as a habit of every person, which shall propagate as the culture of the centre. In his address to the gathering Dr. T. N. Rao, Associate Director said that safety should be of prime concern as it plays an important role in the socio-economic sectors in a significant way which will affect the growth of the institutions and have impact on a national level. Dr. Roy Johnson, Associate Director and Chairman Safety Committee in his address highlighted that ARCI, as an organization has the policy, which gives high priority for the safety, health and environment. He urged everyone in the organization to remain committed to safety and follow procedures and protocols for a sustainable organization with conducive working environment.


    Mr. G Jeevan Raghavendra, Manager (Safety, Health and Environment), M/s. Sai Life Sciences Ltd, Hyderabad delivered an invited talk. Talks were also given by ARCI Scientists Mr. Manish Tak and Mrs. S. Nirmala. Mr. V. Balaji Rao, Scientist F, highlighted the findings of Internal Safety Audit and Mr. D Ramesh, Safety, Fire and Security Officer presented the activities of ARCI Safety Committee. The employees and students participated enthusiastically during the interactive sessions.


    Live Demos and hands-on training will be conducted this week on usage of safety equipment and general safety procedures at ARCI

  
  
  
    

    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605448) Visitor Counter : 37