      PIB Headquarters

      6th Asian Biomaterials Congress begins tomorrow
      Posted On: 24 OCT 2017 3:23PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The 6th Asian Biomaterials Congress (ABMC6) will be inaugurated by Dr. Shashi Tharoor, MP tomorrow (25th October, 2017) at 9 AM at Hotel Apollo Dimora. Thiruvananthapuram Shri. K.M. Chandrasekhar, former Union Cabinet Secretary and President, SCTIMST will preside over the function.


    The Theme of the Congress is “Innovative Biomaterials: Technologies for Life and Society”. Around 350 delegates from various parts of the world will be participating in the three day Congress. More than 85 experts will be speaking in 30 scientific sessions and 3 parallel proceedings.


    200 paper presentations by researchers is the salient feature of the Congress. An Industry-Academia interaction session will also be held during the Congress. This will pave the way for the delegates to get an opportunity to exchange research ideas, more collaborations, translation of the research outcomes into useful products and encouraging entrepreneurs to invest in biomedical products.


    Biomaterials are those materials which are compatible with human body and used for replace or append the damaged body tissues. Medical devices and implants are made out of suitable biomaterials. They are used in diagnosis and treatment. New Biomaterials are being designed to enhance the ‘Quality of Life’ of humans.


    Asian Biomaterials Congress series is a biennial meeting of researchers in this area working in Asian Countries. It was held five times in various Asian cities (Tsukuba, Japan; Singapore, Busan, South Korea, Hong Kong and Taipei, Taiwan).


    This year the sixth ABMC is being hosted in Thiruvananthapuram by Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences & Technology. The Congress is jointly organized by the Society for Biomaterials and Artificial Organs (India), Society for Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine, India and Asia Pacific Society for Artificial Organs.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1506964) Visitor Counter : 70
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam