      PIB Headquarters

      BIS CELEBRATES WORLD STANDARDS DAY 2017
      Posted On: 13 OCT 2017 8:42PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), Kochi Branch Office on the occasion of World Standards Day, organised a programme on 12 October 2017 at SreeGokulam Convention Centre, Kaloor Kochi.. The program was inaugurated by G Shankar, founder of Habitat Technology Group. Shri V J Kurian, Managing Director, Cochin International Airport Limited and former Addl secretary to Govt of Kerala, Dr Radhakrishna Panicker, Principal, School of Engineering, CUSAT also attended the programme. The theme for this year’s World Standards Day is “Standards make cities Smarter” which is chosen collectively by International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO), International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) and International Telecommunication Union (ITU).


    Shri K Kadirvel, Director and Head of the BIS Kochi branch office presented the program objectives wherein he spoke about the importance and origin of world standards day and emphasized the role of standards in accomplishing Smart Cities Mission instituted by Government of India.


    Speaking on the occasion, G Shankar provided an insight into how locally available resources like earth, bamboo, etc if validated and given a stamp of authenticity can be utilized in providing affordable housing facilities which are less expensive and eco-friendly in nature. Shri V J Kurian briefed on the work done by Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL)’s power projects. He also spoke about improving transport facilities like inland waterways and how these can significantly aid in sustainable and inclusive development of smart cities. The seminar was also graced by other speakers like Dr Radhakrishna Panicker, Principal, School of Engineering, CUSAT – who contributed their valued insights during the seminar.


    Around 120 representatives from Industry, Government Organization, Consumer Organizations participated in the Seminar.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506225) Visitor Counter : 51