      PIB Headquarters

      Chitra Vein Viewer- Affordable, Easy To Use and Portable
      Posted On: 19 OCT 2017 7:53PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Most of us, at least once, have faced the pain of injections in life, particularly of needle pricks to draw blood or infuse medicines. The main reason for the fear of intravenous injection is the pain from multiple pricks or improper placement of injection needles to a location other than veins accidently. This happens because the veins are hidden within a layer of skin and are poorly visible to naked eye, particularly in kids in whom the veins are very thin and fragile.


    Better ways of locating veins for injections has remained an unmet clinical need for decades. A device for viewing the veins prior to injections can help healthcare professionals insert the needle accurately into the vein eliminating multiple trials and pricks. Locating veins using a vein viewer device for an injection is a standard practice in developed countries, but not being practiced in our country because of the high cost.


    To address this need, SreeChitraTirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), an Institute of national importance under Department of Science and Technology, Govt. of India, with its long tradition of developing and commercializing medical devices, has introduced a Vein Viewer . The Chitra vein viewer can precisely locate the position of veins, affordable, easy to use, portable and battery-operated. The device uses low power infrared light to illuminate the skin surface where the vein needs to be located.


    The Chitra vein viewer works on the principle of selective absorption difference of near infrared light by blood and tissues. The device emits light in the near infrared spectrum to the region of interest where vein is presumed to be located.The low power near infrared light, is harmless and is used in proven medical applications like functional Near Infrared Spectroscopy (fNIRS), Plethysmography devices and is also recommended for medical use as per ISO standards.


    The technology developed by the clinical and engineering teams of SCTIMST was transferred to M/s Agappe Diagnostics Pvt Limited for commercialization on the occasion of the 100th governing Body meeting of SCTIMST.


    The indigenous development and manufacturing can enable the industry to make the device available to the public at an affordable cost.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506615) Visitor Counter : 138