      PIB Headquarters

      Asian Biomaterials Congress gets underway
      Posted On: 25 OCT 2017 7:41PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The 6th Asian Biomaterials Congress got underway today in Thiruvananthapuram. The event is being held for the first time in the country. As many as 350 delegates ,including 40 from abroad working in the field of biomaterials, artificial organs, medical devices and implants ,tissue engineering, drug delivery ,regenerative medicine, are participating in the three day event.


    Inaugurating the Biomaterials CongressDr.ShashiTharoorMP said that the developments in bio materials field can bring revolutionary changes in healthcare in the coming years. He complimented the efforts carried out by SreeChitra Institute for providing quality medical devices at affordable price. He pointed out that SreeChitra Institute can bring out quality devices which are used in cochlear implant and it will be very beneficial for institutes like National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH).


    SCTIMST President and former Cabinet Secretary Shri. K.M. Chandrasekhar presided over the inaugural function. He said that the Congress in which prominent figures from medical and bio materials fields are participating will kick start diverse activities in the field of biomaterials.


    SreeChitra Institute Director Professor Asha Kishore, SCTIMST Biomedical Technology Wing Head Dr. HarikrishnaVarma, Society for Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine president Dr. Prabha D. Nair, Asian Biomaterials Federation President and the professor of the University of Queensland Justin Cooper-white, Asia Pacific Society for Artificial Organs, Japan secretary Prof. Toru Mazuzawa attended the inaugural function.


    Dr. Chandra P Sharma Honorary President- Asian Biomaterials Congress and the founder of Society for Biomaterials and artificial Organs read the message of Prime Minister Shri. NarendraModi.


    Shri. KM Chandrasekhar released a Souvenir by handing over the first copy to Dr. ShashiTharoor MP.


    The theme of this year’s biomaterial Congress is ‘Innovative Biomaterials: Technologies for Life and Society”.The delegates will get an opportunity to exchange research ideas, more collaborations, transaction of the research outcomes into useful products and encouraging entrepreneurs to invest in biomedical products.


    The event is jointly organized by SreeChitraThirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), Society for Biomaterials and Artificial Organs (India), Society for Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine (India), Asia Pacific Society for Artificial Organs, Japan.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507121) Visitor Counter : 16
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam