      PIB Headquarters

      NABARD launches Water Conservation Campaign
      Posted On: 21 MAR 2017 5:17PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram

      	
      NABARD has decided to launch a major Water Campaign during the current year, covering around 1,00,000 villages in vulnerable/ water stressed areas and more specifically where the ground water is over exploited. The decision comes on the heels of a similar campaign undertaken last year which covered some 40,000 villages and received encouraging response at the field level.
      	 A formal launch of the campaign is scheduled on 22 March 2017, in all the major States through NABARD's Regional Offices in presence of representatives of the State Govt., State Level Bankers' Committee (SLBC), Partner NGOs, Agricultural Universities, Water Experts and Farmers' Club Volunteers.
      	 The campaign would essentially focus on creating awareness among the rural community about the methods of water conservation, preservation and its efficient utilization at various levels using the modern technologies like micro irrigation (more crop per drop), traditional water management practices, adopting improved package of agronomic practices, etc. As a part of the campaign, area specific contents covering different water management practices applicable to local conditions for various agro climatic regions, with emphasis on community participation, is being developed.
      	 In an innovative move, NABARD proposes to identify Village Volunteers (Jal Doots) for a localized and more effective approach. These volunteers will increase awareness about various methods of rain water harvesting, efficient water use, recharging groundwater and integrated farming systems besides facilitating creation of water conservation structures & adoption of water efficient practices/ technologies through convergence with the ongoing schemes of the Govt./ banks. Involvement of bank branches, Govt. departments, extension agencies and other stakeholders during the campaign process is expected to give impetus to this initiative. Adequate number of Master Trainers in each State will be identified and professionally trained who will be deployed to run the campaign at district/ village level during April to July 2017.
    
    
    (Release ID: 1485196) Visitor Counter : 34
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam