      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Health Ministry holds 4th National Summit on Good, Replicable Practices and Innovations in Public Health Care Systems
      Posted On: 06 JUL 2017 6:54PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, Speaker of the 16th Lok Sabha today inaugurated the 4th National Summit on Good, Replicable Practices and Innovations in Public Health Care Systems at Indore, Madhya Pradesh. Shri Faggan Singh Kulaste, Smt Anupriya Patel, Ministers of State for Health and Family Welfare and Shri Rustam Singh, Health Minister (MP), also graced the occasion.

    
    In her address, Smt Sumitra Mahajan highlighted the importance of hospital management. “We are taking various steps to ensure that we are meeting Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),” Smt Mahajan said. She further said that National Health Policy, 2017 is a landmark step as it commits to comprehensive primary healthcare, effective regulatory framework and best infrastructure.
    
    Shri Faggan Singh Kulaste, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare urged all the states to learn from the effective endeavours of the other States to address the challenges in healthcare delivery. Shri Kulaste added that this summit is a good platform to share experiences and collectively strategize on how to improve health services in the country
    
    Addressing the gathering, Smt Anupriya Patel, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare said that the summit gives a unique platform to share those steps that have helped to make a difference in healthcare delivery. “These are also helpful in drawing up a roadmap for meeting goals of SDGs and National Health Policy, 2017 which speaks about a comprehensive healthcare delivery framework,” Smt Anupriya Patel said. She further stated that if states can weave in the social determinants into module of healthcare provisioning then we can grow and strengthen our healthcare system together.
    
    Shri Rustam Singh, Health Minister (MP), highlighted various people-centered innovative approaches taken by state to ensure effective healthcare delivery.
    
    Shri C K Mishra, Secretary (Health) emphasised on the need of sharing best practices in healthcare systems as it gives states an opportunity to learn from each other. “We are meeting in the backdrop of two important events. One, shifting of goals from Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the other is announcement of National Health Policy, 2017. The summit will guide us towards meeting goals set by both,” Shri Mishra said. He further stated that it is important to innovate to meet the targets. The Secretary further added that many exemplary practices have been undertaken in many states to meet healthcare goals and the centre stands committed to supporting the state/ UTs in their innovative endeavours. He urged the states to align their goals to national and global targets in healthcare delivery. Dr Saumya Swaminathan, Secretary (DHR) and DG (ICMR) highlighted the importance of research in healthcare.
    
    The Health Ministry also gave away awards to the states on the basis of Health Indicators and Service Delivery. The award for best performing States in the category of indoor services (based on change of IPD/1000 population from 2015-16 to 2016-17-HMIS) was given to Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat. Daman and Diu got the award among the Union Territories (UTs). For the best out-patient services, the award was given to Gujarat, Punjab and Jharkhand whereas Dadra and Nagar Haveli got the award amongst the Union Territories. For, average out of pocket expenditure per delivery in public health facility, the award was given to Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. Among the UTs, the award was given to Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The award for decline in IMR was given to Jammu and Kashmir and West Bengal among the bigger states, Manipur received it amongst the smaller states and Puducherry amongst the UTs. Best Performance in Revised National TB Control Programmme was given to Assam and Himachal Pradesh.
    
    Also present at the function were Shri R K Vats AS & MD (NHM) Smt. Vandana Gurnani, Joint Secretary (RCH, IEC), Principal Secretaries and Mission Directors from the States along with the other senior officers of the Health Ministry and Madhya Pradesh Government.

    *****


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494758) Visitor Counter : 192