      Ministry of Education

      Beijing Declaratoin on Education
      Posted On: 05 JUL 2017 5:26PM by PIB Delhi

      

        Following is the text of BEIJING DECLARATION ON EDUCATION adopted in the 5 th Meeting of BRICS Ministers of Education in Beijing, China, on July 5th, 2017.


        We, the BRICS Ministers of Education and assigned representatives of the Federative Republic of Brazil, the Russian Federation the Republic of India, the People’s Republic of China, and the Republic of South Africa.


        Having met in Beijing, the People’s Republic of China on July 4 th and 5 th , 2017 to discuss education reforms, approaches to promoting equity in education and fostering quality education, strengthening BRICS collaboration in the field of education, and exchange of students and scholars and teaching faculty among BRICS Member States;


        Recalling Brasilia Declaration on March 2 nd , 2015, Moscow Declaration on November 18 th , 2015 and New Delhi Declaration on September 30 th , 2016;


        Committed to the UN Sustainable Development Goal 4 (SDG4)-Education 2030 which aims to “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote life-long learning opportunities for all” that was set within The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development .


        Recognizing the significance of collaboration in the field of education for enhancing the overall partnership among BRICS Member States and enhancing people to people exchanges to a higher level;


        Realizing that the scale of education development in BRICS Member States is expanding rapidly, and that all Member States face common challenges in promoting educational equity, accessibility and in improving the quality of education;


        Considering that higher education contributes to the development of high-level human resources and intellectual support for the economic and social development, studies of BRICS Member States will enhance the mutual understanding between each Member State, and


        Recognizing that the mobility of faculty and students, and sharing of information among the Member States is of great importance for the implementation of the consensus arrived at the Meeting of BRICS Ministers of Education.


        For ensuring coordinated and deeper cooperation among the Member States, hereby declare to;


        1. Reiterate support for the BRICS Network University (NU) to collaborate in the fields of education, research and innovation. Encourage universities to participate in the BRICS University League.


        2. Increase cultural cooperation through language education and multilingualism to promote mutual understanding of the history and culture of BRICS Member States.


        3. Undertake initiatives to promote professionalization of academics in higher education through the BRICS Network University as a focus of future education development.


        4. Encourage more teachers and educational administrators to learn from experience of other countries in improving teacher quality and performance, and promoting the development of education through international exchanges.


        5. Strengthen cooperation in the field of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET), share ideas and experiences in the development of vocational educators, and develop projects that are of common interests to BRICS Member States.


        6. Recognize the importance of BRICS Think Tanks Council (BTTC), BRICS Network University as well as other BRICS initiatives, and encourage the streamlining of mechanisms for their closer cooperation to ensure the alignment of their work.


        7. Emphasize the importance of streamlining the cooperation among educational think tanks and education researchers, and welcome China’s invitation to host a conference to explore possible cooperation among the various entities in BRICS Member States.


        8. Encourage the organization of “youth winter/summer camps” to reinforce communication and cultural exchanges among the young generation from BRICS Member States.


        9. Encourage Member States to expand the number of scholarship opportunities to students across BRICS Member States.


        10. Share the experience and practices in achieving the SDG4-Education 2030 targets in order to foster a more favorable policy environment, adopt effective practices, and advocate for global educational policies that take into account the common concern and priorities of the BRICS Member States.


        11. Encourage the participation in the 3 rd BRICS NU Annual Conference to be held in 2018, in Cape Town, South Africa and in the BRICS Global Business and Innovation Conference to be held in September 2017, in St. Petersburg, Russia.


        The Federative Republic of Brazil, the Russian Federation, the Republic of India, and the Republic of South Africa extend their appreciation to the Government of the People’s Republic of China for hosting the 5 th Meeting of BRICS Ministers of Education.


        *****


        GG/AK/RK/ BRICS-2017


    

    
    (Release ID: 1494614) Visitor Counter : 373