      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      “The Regional voice is the Universal voice”
      
      “Authenticity, Objectivity & Timely information dissemination are three core competencies of Doordarshan” - Shri Venkaiah Naidu

      Posted On: 06 JUL 2017 1:43PM by PIB Delhi
      
      I&B Minister inaugurates Doordarshan Regional News Unit workshop Shri Naidu inaugurates the new website of DD News

        Minister for Information & Broadcasting, Shri Venkaiah Naidu has said that the news framework should focus on local content, development and bottoms up approach. The emerging information flow should aim at transformative and emerging New India with effective communication outreach. The GST and Swachh Bharat campaign were classic examples of communicating reforms and seamlessly reaching out to the common man about the benefits of such flagship initiatives of the Government. Shri Naidu stated this while inaugurating the Doordarshan Regional News Unit (RNU) workshop here today. Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore, Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, Shri A. Surya Prakash, Chairman, Prasar Bharati, Shri N. K.Sinha, Secretary, Ministry of I&B and Shri Shashi S. Vempati, CEO Prasar Bharati were also present on the occasion.


        Highlighting the important role of Doordarshan in the communication landscape, Shri Naidu said that the Doordarshan strategy should be founded on three pillars of Authenticity, Objectivity and Timely dissemination of information. Objectivity in news and information dissemination was critical for people to understand and pursue issues. The Regional News Units (RNUs) played a critical role to play in a linguistic and culturally diverse country like India and catered to local aspirations and addressing communication needs thereby bringing out a synergy in Government communication.


        The Minister further emphasized on the critical role of RNUs, as the communication outposts to reform mindsets, enhance administrative performance and transform nation through the broadcast of success stories which had significant impact on the lives of the local people. He appreciated the efforts of RNUs which telecast a total of about 146 daily News Bulletin in 23 languages for a cumulative duration of more than 30 hours daily. He also added that the RNUs need to work in collaboration with the State Governments to bring about transformation in the emerging New India and perform proactively the responsibilities of a Public Broadcaster. He also called upon the participants to focus on innovative thinking, out of box ideas, new methods involving technological tools and a foresight to understand the changing media landscape.


        Speaking on the M&E Industry, Shri Naidu said that Indian M&E industry is on the cusp of a strong phase of growth, backed by rising consumer demand and improving advertising revenues. He also highlighted the Government’s push towards Cable digitization as well as the role of free to air (FTH) DTH platforms like Doordarshan FreeDish in plugging the gap between premium DTH and low quality Cable market.


        Shri Naidu mentioned that the Ministry of I&B was in the process of bringing out a bringing out a complete overhaul in the Indian Information Service Cadre in line with the changing information and communication paradigm. The focus would be shifting towards strengthening of the regional infrastructure and personnel to fulfil the communication and information needs of each and every section of the society across the country.


        Shri Naidu also complimented the officials for their efforts while launching the new website of DD News on the occasion. A presentation on the functioning of the RNUs was earlier made by DG News Smt. Veena Jain highlighting the mandates and achievements of the RNUs. The presentation also provided an insight into the future roadmap for the RNUs.


        CP/GV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494694) Visitor Counter : 162