      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi inaugurates first Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Centre in Hyderabad
      Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Centre to be established in 100 Districts of the country: Shri Naqvi
      
      Shri Naqvi addresses Annual Conference of State Channelising Agencies (SCAs) of NMDFC
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2017 1:54PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Minority Affairs (Independent Charge) & Parliamentary Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that besides providing various job-oriented skill development courses, Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Centres of Ministry of Minority Affairs will also offer certificate course in Goods and Services Tax accounting/programming and other related subjects.


    While inaugurating the first Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Centre at Vijayanagar Colony in Hyderabad, Shri Naqvi said that the youths, after completing about three-months duration Goods and Services Tax course, will not only be able to help small-medium traders and the common people, but they will also immensely benefitted by this course as it will open vast job opportunities in the related sectors.


    Shri Naqvi said that under the policy of “One Nation One Tax”, the GST has been implemented across the country. Demand for professionals having knowledge regarding GST accounting/programming and other related subjects will increase significantly in the coming days. The GST course by Ministry of Minority Affairs, will be offered with assistance of National and International experts on GST. It will naturally increase the importance of GST course offered by Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Centres and youths belonging to Minority communities will directly benefitted through this course.


    Shri Naqvi said that Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Centres will be established in 100 Districts of the country, providing job oriented skill training in various fields. Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Centres will also be established in Noida, Lucknow, Jaipur, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Bhopal, Indore, Allahabad, Mysore, Chennai, Goa, Gauhati, Kolakata, Patna, Kishanganj, Dehradun, Shahjahanpur, Rampur, Ranchi, Giridih, Mewat, Tijara, Panipat, Delhi, Uddhamsingh Nagar, Amritsar, Chandigarh, Mumbai etc.


    Shri Naqvi said that these Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Centres will proved to be “centres of empowerment” of Minority youths. Minority Affairs Ministry has launched Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Training for Minorities for providing short term job oriented skill development course for youths belonging to minority communities.


    These short term courses include certificate course in health services, mobile & laptop repairing, computer hardware & networking, retail management programme, motor driving training, security guard training, courses in house keeping etc.


    Shri Naqvi also inaugurated and laid foundation stones for various development projects including minority residential school at Rajender Nagar, inauguration plaque of Yedapally & Renjal Anganwadi centres at Nizamabad at Haj House, Nampally, Hyderabad.


    Shri Naqvi said that “3E”- Education, Employment, Empowerment has ensured that Minorities are becoming part of mainstream development process. Shri Naqvi said that to provide quality education to each and every child, Ministry of Minority Affairs will launch a mega education campaign “Tahrik-e-Taleem”.


    Earlier, Shri Naqvi addressed Annual Conference of State Channelising Agencies (SCAs) of National Minorities Development & Finance Corporation (NMDFC) in Hyderabad. Shri Naqvi said that NMDFC has played a vital role in implementation of various schemes of Minority Affairs Ministry at the grass root level.


    On the occasion, Shri Naqvi also launched a Mobile App on schemes of NMDFC in Hindi, English & Urdu. NMDFC is the 1 st Apex Corporation to launch Mobile App on its schemes which is expected to help the persons from the target groups to know about the schemes of NMDFC and also guide them in availing assistance under schemes of NMDFC.


    Shri Naqvi also launched Artisan Credit Scheme for the benefit of artisans from the Minority communities. Under this scheme, the artisans will be able to avail concessional credit for meeting their capital requirement.


    The conference provided opportunity to discuss some pending issues observed during implementation of the schemes at the field level. During the meeting, a presentation was made by SIDBI about the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro & Small Enterprises (CGTSME) for possible tie-up with SCAs of NMDFC, for implementation of NMDFC schemes. MOUs in respect of annual allocations and targets were also signed between NMDFC and the respective SCAs for implementation during the course of the current financial year 2017-18.


    ****


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494881) Visitor Counter : 120