      Ministry of Urban Development

      Two day review of progress of urban schemes in 7 Union Territories begins tomorrow
      
      
      Lieutenant Governors and Chief Ministers of Delhi and Puducherry invited for review
      
      Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu to complete review of progress in 29 States/UTs

      Posted On: 04 JUL 2017 6:17PM by PIB Delhi

    

    A two day review of progress of new urban missions in seven Union Territories including Delhi begins in New Delhi tomorrow.

    
    On the first day tomorrow i.e July 5, 2017, National Mission Directors of five urban missions will undertake detailed review of progress and implementation issues with officials from UTs concerning AMRUT, Smart City Mission, Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban), Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana(Urban) and Deen Dayal Antyodaya Yojana- NULM. Issues relating to urban transport will also be discussed.
    
    Minister of Urban Development and HUPA Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu has convened a meeting of Lieutenant Governors of Delhi, Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nager Haveli, Daman & Diu and Lakshadweep on July 6, 2017 for a high level review for evolving a way forward for speeding up implementation under various missions.
    
    Chief Minister of Delhi Shri Arvind Kejriwal and of Puducherry Shri V.Narayanasamy have also been invited for the review. These are the only two UTs with elected legislatures.
    
    Ministry of Urban Development has already approved investments for the five year mission period for all the seven UTs under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and smart city plans of New Delhi Municipal Council, Chandigarh and Port Blair.
    
    Special focus will be on sanitation with only three of the 16 towns in these UTs having been declared Open Defecation so far. Capacity building issues will also be discussed to enable speedy execution of projects.
    
    Shri Venkaiah Naidu has so far reviewed progress of urban missions in 22 States with Chief Ministers in respective state capitals. With the proposed review in case of seven UTs, such review in respect of 29 of the 36 States and UTs would be completed by July 6.
    
    States remaining to be reviewed are: Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Punjab, Telangana and West Bengal.
    
    AAR/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494506) Visitor Counter : 246