      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Department of Consumer Affairs allows change in MRP on unsold stock prior to implementation of GST till 30th September 2017
      Shri Ram Vilas Paswan says change in MRP can be done by stamping, putting sticker or through online printing

      Posted On: 04 JUL 2017 6:22PM by PIB Delhi
      
      
      

        On account of implementation of GST w.e.f. 1 st July, 2017, there may be instances where the retail sale price of a pre-packaged commodity is required to be changed. In this context, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan, Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution has allowed the manufacturers or packers or importers of pre-packaged commodities to declare the change retail sale price (MRP) on the unsold stock manufactured/ packed/ imported prior to 1 st July, 2017 after inclusion of the increased amount of tax due to GST if any, in addition to the existing retail sale price (MRP), for three months w.e.f. 1 st July 2017 to 30 th September, 2017. Declaration of the changed retail sale price (MRP) shall be made by way of stamping or putting sticker or online printing, as the case may be.


        It is also clarified that ‘for reducing the Maximum Retail Price (MRP), a sticker with the revised lower MRP (inclusive of all taxes) may be affixed and the same shall not cover the MRP declaration made by the manufacturer or the packer, as the case may be, on the label of the package’.


        Use of unexhausted packaging material/wrapper has also been allowed upto 30 th September, 2017 after making the necessary corrections.


        Ø Consumer protection has always been a major thrust area of Government.


        Ø The Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 are framed to regulate the pre-packaged commodities. Rule 6 of the said rules provides that every package shall bear thereon the following declarations :


        (i) Name and address of the manufacturer/ packer/ importer;


        (ii) Common or generic name of the commodity contained in the package;


        (iii) Net quantity, in terms of standard unit of weight or measure or in number;


        (iv) Month and year of manufacture/ pack/ import;


        (v) Retail sale price in the form of Maximum Retail Price (MRP) Rs….. Inclusive of all taxes ;


        (vi) Consumer care details.


        AK


        *****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1494507) Visitor Counter : 240