      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Garib Nawaz Skill Development Centres to be established in 100 districts of the country: Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi
      Posted On: 06 JUL 2017 2:18PM by PIB Delhi

      Shri Naqvi felicitates candidates, belonging to Minority communities, selected in the prestigious civil services examination & got financial assistance under “Nai Udaan” scheme
      
      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi chairs General Body and Governing Body meeting of Maulana Azad Education Foundation
      The Minister of State for Minority Affairs (Independent Charge) & Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that Garib Nawaz Skill Development Centres will be established in 100 districts of the country which will effectively ensure employment oriented skill development of youth belonging to Minority communities.
      
      Shri Naqvi said that in next six months, Garib Nawaz Skill Development Centres, providing job oriented skill training in various fields, will be established in Hyderabad, Noida, Lucknow, Jaipur, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Bhopal, Indore, Allahabad, Mysore, Chennai, Goa, Gauhati, Kolakata, Patna, Kishanganj, Dehradun, Shahjahanpur, Rampur, Ranchi, Giridih, Mewat, Tijara, Panipat, Delhi, Uddhamsingh Nagar, Amritsar, Chandigarh, Mumbai etc.
      
      The Minority Affairs Minister today felicitated candidates, belonging to Minority communities, selected in the prestigious civil services examination who got financial assistance under “Nai Udaan” scheme, for coaching and preparation of competitive exams, of Ministry of Minority Affairs. Shri Naqvi said that education is solution to several problems including poverty. Through education, we can also tackle menace of radicalism and terrorism.
      
      Shri Naqvi said that this is for the first time that a record number of youth from Minority communities, which also includes about 50 Muslims, have cleared the civil services examination 2016. It is the highest since Independence. Bilal Mohiuddin Bhatt from Jammu and Kashmir has got 10th rank.
      
      Shri Naqvi said that the results show that there is no dearth of talent in Minority communities. They just need an opportunity and better atmosphere. And our Government has worked hard in this regard. Financial assistance for coaching for administrative services examination will be increased for youth belonging to Minority communities- Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Jain, Buddhist and Parsi.
      
      Shri Naqvi said that youths belonging to Minority community especially those from Jammu and Kashmir should take inspirations from these candidates who have cleared civil services examination.
      
      Congratulating the candidates who were felicitated today, Shri Naqvi said that they are ideals for the youth belonging to Minority communities. They should guide the youth from their community and support them. A total of 7 candidates who got financial assistance under “Nai Udaan” scheme, have been selected in the civil services examination this year. These candidates include 5 Muslims and 2 Jains. So far, 3198 candidates have been provided financial assistance under the scheme. Out of which, 24 candidates have cleared and finally selected in the civil services examination.
      
      A high-level 11-member committee, constituted by the Ministry of Minority Affairs to chalk out a detailed roadmap for educational empowerment of Minorities today submitted its report to Shri Naqvi during Governing Body and General Body meeting of Maulana Azad Education Foundation. The Ministry of Minority Affairs is in the process to establish 5 world class educational institutions to provide better traditional and modern education to students belonging to Minority communities in technical, medical, Ayurved, Unani etc fields.
      
      Shri Naqvi said that the Ministry of Minority Affairs is working on a strategy so that these institutes can get started in next two years. We have proposed 40 per cent reservation for girls in these institutions.
      
      The Minister said that to provide quality education to each and every child, Ministry of Minority Affairs will launch a mega education campaign “Tahrik-e-Taleem”. The campaign will be launched on 15th October, the birth anniversary of former President of India Dr APJ Abdul Kalam.
      
      About 100 Navoday Vidyalaya type schools will be opened in Minority concentrated areas. The Ministry has established 23 Gurukul type residential schools.
      
      Shri Naqvi said that our commitment is “inclusive growth and atmosphere of trust”. No destructive agenda can dominate or weaken our development agenda. We all should come and work together to remove all hurdles from the path of development through education.

      *****

      
      
      AK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1494703) Visitor Counter : 358