      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Two-day Regional Conference on Good Governance and Replication of Best Practices in Governance begins in Nainital tomorrow
      Posted On: 06 JUL 2017 3:20PM by PIB Delhi

      A 2-day Regional Conference on “Good Governance and Replication of Best Practices” will begin in Nainital, Uttarakhand tomorrow. Organised by the Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DARPG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Government of India in collaboration with Government of Uttarakhand, the Conference will be inaugurated by Secretary, DARPG, Shri C. Viswanath.

      The Conference is an effort to create a common platform to share experiences in the formulation and implementation of citizen centric governance, improved public service delivery through e-Governance, transparent, accountable and citizen-friendly effective administration. Delegates from 12 States and four UTs of Northern, Western and Central Region will be participating in the conference.


      The Chief Minister, Uttarakhand, Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat and Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh will be addressing the participants during the Valedictory Session on Saturday, July 8, 2017.


      As per the programme schedule, three sessions will be held during the conference. In the first session on July 7, 2017, two presentations will be made: one on the Paperless Himachal Legislative Assembly and another on Good Governance Index. This will be followed by a panel discussion in the second session on July 8 , 2017 on Good Governance Index. Two presentations will also be made on the day on: Startup India (T-Hub) and Innovations on Rural Solid Waste Management. In the third session, there will be two presentations on: Stand-Up India and e-National Agriculture Market. A brief presentation on Exemplary Initiatives in the state of Uttarakhand will be made in the Inaugural Session.


      The DARPG has so far organised 25 such regional conferences to share experiences in the formulation and successful implementation of good governance practices and to facilitate speedy and efficient delivery of public services. The event brings together national and state level organisations along with other stakeholders including intelligentsia and media on the same platform.


      ***


      KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494719) Visitor Counter : 163