      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NSG organises first International Aviation Security seminar
      India's 26th highest monumental flag installed at NSG campus

      Posted On: 07 JUL 2017 8:32PM by PIB Delhi

    
    

    The Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship (I/C) Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy attended the second day of the first International Aviation Security Seminar in Manesar today. National Security Guard (NSG) has organised the seminar, with the aim of bringing all major stakeholders under one roof and facilitate them sharing views/opinion, discussions, brain storming with the matters concerning Aviation Security.

    
    Prominent personalities/speakers from various organizations/aviation sector delivered lectures and shared valuable views on the matter of aviation security. Weapons and equipment were also displayed showcasing the current weapons and systems used by the forces and cutting edge systems considered for future planning.
    
    Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Shri Rajiv Nayan Choubey and DG, NSG Shri Sudhir Pratap Singh also attended the seminar. The Minister of State for Civil Aviation Shri Jayant Sinha addressed the seminar yesterday.
    
    About 300 delegates/officials from the Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Directorate General of Civil Aviation, Airports Authority of India, Bureau of Civil Aviation Security of India, Central Industrial Security Force, State Police Forces, Airports, Airlines, Foreign Security /Aviation of USA, France, Germany and Sri Lanka participated in the Seminar.
    
    Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy also hoisted the National Flag at NSG Campus, during the National Flag Foundation programme, being organised by NSG today. The Force has got a 30X45 National Flag (Tiranga) on a 100 feet monumental flagpole installed in its Campus. It is the India's 67th Flagpole and 26th highest Monumental Flagpole.

    *****


    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494865) Visitor Counter : 119