      President's Secretariat

      President of India’s message on the eve of Independence Day of Algeria
      Posted On: 04 JUL 2017 2:21PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee has extended his greetings and felicitations to the Government and people of the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria on the eve of their Independence Day (July 05, 2017).
    
    In a message to His Excellency Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the President of the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria, the President has said, “On behalf of the Government, the people of India and on my own behalf, it gives me great pleasure to extend to Your Excellency and to the friendly people of Algeria my warm greetings and felicitations on the occasion of your nation’s Independence Day.
    
    India considers Algeria as one of the leading economies of Africa and the developing world. The partnership between our countries continues to grow in several areas for the mutual benefit of our peoples.
    
    I am happy that the visit of the Hon’ble Vice President of India to Algiers from October 17-19, 2016 has contributed to the further strengthening of the friendship between our peoples. I am also happy to learn that a roadmap for co-operation in the fertilizer sector has been agreed to during the visit. The bilateral co-operation between our two countries in the fertilizer sector has immense potential for creating additional employment and promoting food security.
    
    Similarly, space co-operation between India and Algiers has, also, assumed new dimensions. I am confident that both our countries will continue to pursue and enhance our bilateral co-operation in the space sector for our mutual benefit and the strengthening of our bilateral co-operation in the ICT, oil, defence and gas sectors.
    
    Please accept, Excellency, my best wishes for your personal health and well-being as well as the continued progress and prosperity of the people of Algeria”.

    ***


    
    
    AKT/NT/VK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494453) Visitor Counter : 98