      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      CM Uttarakhand, Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat & Union MoS Dr Jitendra Singh address Valedictory Session of the two-Day Regional Conference on “Good Governance and Replication of Best Practices”
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2017 5:27PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh and Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat addressed the participants of 10 States and one Union Territory during the Valedictory Session of the 26th two-day Regional Conference on the theme “Good Governance and Replication of Best Practices” in Nainital today.

    
    In his address, Dr Jitendra Singh said that the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s motto is ‘Minimum Government, Maximum Governance’. Driven by this principle, the Government is committed to the service of the poor and the weaker sections of society. During the last three years the Government has undertaken several Good Governance initiatives such as Jan Dhan Yojana, Mudra Yojana, Krishi Sinchai Yojana and Start-up India, he added.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh said that despite apprehensions over opening of crores of Jan Dhan accounts, in the initial five-six months of the scheme thousands of crores Rupees were deposited in these accounts. He said that self-attestation, scrapping of Interviews for Non-Gazetted posts and introduction of Skill Tests are path-breaking initiatives towards Good Governance and Citizen Centricity. In a country where 65% population is Youth below 40 years of age, the Government has introduced novel concept such as setting up the Initial Capital Venture Fund that funds individuals to promote small Startup firms. Dr Jitendra Singh also said the Government has also accorded priority to address the common man’s grievances and the Grievances Disposal rate has reached 80-90% under the CPGRAMS portal.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat said inspired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s example of ensuring a corruption free Government during the last three years, he has assured an unblemished Government in the State. “When I took over as the CM, I promised to constitute the Jan Lokpal within the first 100 days of Government, but today I have ensured there arises no need for the Lokpal,” said Shri Rawat. He said Good Governance means ensuring Government Services delivery to the weaker sections and the last man in the queue.
    
    Addressing the gathering, Shri C. Viswanath, Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DARPG), Government of India, said that the Prime Minister has directed to replicate the Best Practices awarded during the Civil Services Day function and there is now tremendous response among the various States and Districts to vie for the awards.
    
    During the two-day Conference, eight presentations on (i) Exemplary initiatives in the State of Uttarakhand, (ii) the status of Ease of Doing Business and IT adoption in the state of Uttarakhand, (iii) e-Vidhan: Paperless Himachal Legislative Assembly (iv) Good Governance Index- Introduction & Methodology of Preparation, Key Governance Sectors & Areas, Indicators and Data Availability, (v) Startup India (T-Hub) - Telangana, (vi) Innovations on Rural Solid Waste Management- Tamil Nadu, (vii) Stand-Up India - Chhattisgarh & (viii) e-National Agriculture Market- Telangana were made. Two films on “Making New India” and “Journey of PM Awards” prepared by DARPG were screened during the Conference.

    *****


    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494891) Visitor Counter : 84