      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      The government is committed to the continuous development of the Indian economy: Shri Radha Mohan Singh
      In the last few years, Jammu and Kashmir achieve remarkable success in increasing the production of some important crops like paddy, maize, vegetables and saffron: Shri Singh
      
      Shri Radha Mohan Singh addresses the farmers in Srinagar
      Posted On: 04 JUL 2017 2:05PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers and Welfare, Shri Radha Mohan Singh said that the government is committed to the continuous development of the Indian economy. India can become one of the world's major economic powers by developing the enterprises related to agriculture, where the products can be stored, processed and are brought to the market. Shri Singh said it while speaking to the farmers in Srinagar.


    Shri Radha Mohan Singh said that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, too, is well aware of the importance of agriculture and its contribution to the Indian economy. Hence, he has initiated a series of schemes for the betterment of the farmers. In the last three years, the new schemes introduced include distribution of soil health card, expansion in irrigation facilities, low-cost Organic Farming, National Agriculture Market, Horticultural Development, Agroforestry, Beekeeping, Milk, fish and egg production and agricultural education on a priority basis.


    Shri Singh said that Prime Minister shared his dream of doubling the income of the farmers by 2022 in Bareilly in February 2016. For which he not only initiated new schemes but also made necessary funds available. In the last three years, the government has worked on five main areas to increase the agricultural produce and farmers' income by adopting effective strategies which are as follows:


    • Production of Neem Coated Urea.


    • Reducing the cost of cultivation by promoting Organic Farming. The Government has reduced the cost of DAP by Rs.2500 per tonne and MOP by Rs. 5000 per tonne.


    • Increasing production by successfully launching Soil Health Card Scheme, providing water to every filed under Prime Minister Krishi Sinchai Yojana and reducing production costs by implementing Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana.


    • The government has started the e-name to provide a country-wide and transparent market for the farmers.


    • In the same way, the government started many programs on animal husbandry, milk production, horticulture, agroforestry, poultry, fisheries, beekeeping, Medh Per Ped.


    Union Agriculture Minister said that Jammu and Kashmir J&K is a food deficit state as a result the State has to import nearly 7 lakh MT of food grains every year. The deficit in production is mainly due to geographical and climatic conditions as most of the area is mono-cropped. Other reasons for this are small fragmented holdings which minimise the scope of mechanisation and other scientific practices as well as the conversion of agricultural lands for non-agricultural purposes. In order to bridge the gap between the production of food grains and consumption, the State is striving to increase production level of various crops including food crops. To achieve this goal, the State is implementing a number of centrally sponsored schemes for which the Government is providing support. Available data shows that during the last few years, the State has achieved remarkable success in enhancing the production level of some important crops like Paddy, Maize, Vegetables and Saffron.


    Shri Singh said that the Government had announced a special package of Rs. 500 crore on November 7, 2015, for rehabilitation and development of damaged horticulture areas of the state for which the state Government has submitted its plan for 2016-19. The National Horticulture Board is entrusted with the task of establishing Rs. 24.45 crore Saffron Park in Pampore, Pulwama. The park will have facilities of Quality Control Lab, Export Promotion Activity and e-auction Centre. The park is likely to become operational by November 2017.


    In the last two years (2015-16 & 2016-17), with the initiative of CM and support of Centrally Sponsored Schemes so many notable achievements have been made in the state.


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494450) Visitor Counter : 304
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil