      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      ‘Modern Lifestyle is The Reason for The Condition of Our Forests, Rivers, Air and Land”: Dr Harsh Vardhan
      Posted On: 06 JUL 2017 4:18PM by PIB Delhi


    “The condition of our forests, rivers, air and land is a matter of serious concern for us. The reason for this is the modern lifestyle adopted by us”, Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan has said. Leading the plantation drive at District Park, Paschim Vihar to mark Van Mahotsav celebrations here today, the Minister said, “Plants are another form of God, they give us free oxygen and absorb carbon-dioxide”. He added that climate change and global warming are burning issues of the world and attempts are being made at various levels to resolve these issues. Dr. Harsh Vardhan pointed out that in this fight against global warming and climate change, the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi figures among the prominent leaders of the world. He also said that the International Solar Alliance (ISA) was established at the initiative of Shri Narendra Modi and with the cooperation of France, ISA’s office was established in Gurugram and funds have been made available.


    “Environment protection is connected to our culture, but we have forgotten this cultural heritage”, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said. He also emphasised that had we continued with this heritage of protection of environment, today we could have presented a big example before the world.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan also paid rich tributes to Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee. He said that today is the birth anniversary of one of the great sons of India. “His life was full of sacrifice, he devoted his life and gave a new direction to politics”, the Minister said.


    Dr Harsh Vardhan also recalled the contribution of former Environment Minister, Shri Anil Madhav Dave, to environmental issues. He said that today is Dave ji’s birth anniversary and also reminisced that Dave ji used to say that if one wants to remember him, one should plant saplings.


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494732) Visitor Counter : 360