      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal addresses Industrialists and Business Leaders from Punjab & Haryana in Chandigarh
      Invites them to Take Part in World Food India
      
      Haryana will be the partner state for World Food India

      Posted On: 08 JUL 2017 11:00AM by PIB Delhi

    Ministry of Food Processing Industries organized World Food India roadshow in Chandigarh. The high profile delegation for Chandigarh Roadshow was led by Union Minister for Food Processing Industries Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal along with other senior govt officials. The Roadshow received tremendous response and generated huge interest among the Punjab & Haryana food processing business community.


    Union Minister for Food Processing Industries Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Shri. Om Prakash Dhankar, Agriculture Minister, Government of Haryana and senior government officers addressed the business community of Punjab & Haryana.The key agenda of the roadshow was to seek their active participation at the World Food India 2017 and also share the details of the Kisan SAMPADA Scheme.


    Addressing the industry leaders at the roadshow, Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Union Minister, Ministry of Food Processing Industries, said that India has a vast scope in food processing sector and offers tremendous investment and employment opportunities. Setting up of 42 Mega Food Parks will lead to direct employment for up to 5 lakh and benefit 25 lakh farmers. My dream is that every farmers gets together as self-help group to progress. The aim of these Mega Food Parks and SAMPADA scheme is to double farmers’ income. The SAMPADA scheme being implemented now promises to benefit from small farmers to an affluent one. Food sector will expand three times by 2020. The world is looking towards India and through a platform like World Food India 2017, and all international markets are looking to India to source. We aim to provide a platform to all farmers at World Food India 2017. She also welcomed Haryana to be partner state for World Food India 2017.


    Speaking at the Roadshow, Shri Om Prakash Dhankar, Agriculture Minister, Government of Haryana, said that they are taking concrete steps to increase the income of farmers and give shape to Peri-Urban Agriculture in Haryana. He added that the Chandigarh – Delhi Highway with high traffic provides a good opportunity to market food processing and also called to develop clusters like mushroom in Haryana. The Minister added that farmers would have to make farming demand-based and carry out farming by understanding the need of the big cities. He also called for Ministry’s support in training of farmers in marketing skills to ensure that their produce gets to the high table.


    Food processing industry representatives present at the Roadshow included industry from all segments including Food processing, cold chain, agro products beverages, fisheries, dairy, organic & health food, Farmer Producer Organisations,Progressive farmers and food & industry associations.


    About World Food India 2017


    The Ministry of Food Processing Industries is organising, in collaboration with the Confederation Indian Industry (CII), World Food India in New Delhi from 3rd to 5th November, 2017. World Food India 2017 is the platform for showcasing the food processing strength of India and an opportunities to connect with international and Indian key players in food processing and allied sectors. World Food India will be the largest gathering of investors, manufacturers, producers, food processors, policy makers, and organizations from the global food ecosystem. It will provide opportunities for both investment and trade in the food processing sector for both domestic and international companies.


    Italy has confirmed to be a Focus Country and Haryana and Andhra Pradesh will be Partner States of World Food India. World Food India has received tremendous response across the globe and will see participation from over 20 countries. More than 10 States and all leading giants from India and abroad in Food processing, food technology, technology & equipment players, cold chains & reefer transports, ingredients, food retailers will be present at World Food India.


    *******


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494940) Visitor Counter : 88