      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      4th Slum Yuva Daud concludes at Rohini with over 5000 participants
      Posted On: 01 JUL 2017 2:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports shri Vijay Goel here today flagged off the 4th Slum Yuva Daud with Member of Parliament Shri Udit Raj and Commonwealth Gold medalist and renowned wrestler Babita Phogat. Today’s Daud started from Ambedkar Bhawan, Rohini and ended at Engineering College, Bawana, Delhi. More than 5000 youth from Delhi slums participated in Daud with enthusiasm.


    Addressing the participants Goel said, “This is not just any other run but we are running for a better tomorrow, a New India where each youngster is a capable being and sports being one field in which we must grow big and powerful.” Babita Phogat urged the youth to participate in sporting activities and promote healthy living through yoga, sports and other positive measures. Shri Udit Raj hailed the Sports Ministry’s initiative of Slum Yuva Daud and called it a ‘great way” to unite the youth.


    Both chief guests encouraged the youngsters to follow the path of “Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat” to create a “New India” which PM Narendra Modi has dreamt of. Shri Goel also interacted with the participants via quiz contest, songs and cultural activities.


    The 5th Slum Yuva Daud is scheduled for tomorrow, 2 July, 2017 at Gagan Cinema, Nand Nagri where Sports Minister Shri Vijay Goel, Minister of State for I&B Shri Rajyavardhan Rathore and Delhi BJP President Manoj Tiwari will flag off the Daud.


    The Slum Yuva Daud is part of the Adopt Slum Campaign initiated by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports and Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan which aims at highlighting the government’s pro-people schemes among masses. A total 11 Slum Yuva Runs have been planned out of which 4 have already been concluded successfully with mass participation.


    AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494310) Visitor Counter : 161