      Ministry of Finance

      The Minister of State of Finance and Corporate Affairs Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal to release a Compendium of CSR : Best Practices in India tomorrow; Compendium to highlight and motivate the best CSR practices of Corporate contributed under CSR projects towards nation building efforts for sustainable development.
      Posted On: 11 JUL 2017 3:28PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The Minister of State of Corporate Affairs and Finance, Government of India Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal would Release the Compendium of CSR: Best Practices in Indiatomorrow, 12th July, 2017 at Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) Campus at Manesar, District. Gurgaon, Haryana.

    
    Indian Social Responsibility Network (ISRN), a forum for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) are jointly organizing the Release of Compendium of CSR: Best Practices in India to highlight and motivate the best CSR practices of Corporate contributed under CSR projects towards nation building efforts for sustainable development.
    
    ISRN and IICA will also sign MoU to carry forward joint initiatives in the area of CSR.
    
    Dr. Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Member of Parliament & Vice-Chairperson ISRN would be the Guest of Honour on the occasion. Shri Sunil Arora, DG & CEO, IICA, will deliver the Welcome Address. Shri Santosh Gupta, CEO, ISRN will deliver the Introductory Remarks and highlight the process of compilation of Compendium of CSR Best Practices in India.
    
    Highlights of Compendium of Best CSR Practices
    
    The Compendium of CSR: Best Practices in India is a rich collection of selected stimulating documentation capturing the best practices in the field of CSR in India. Apart from benefiting the Corporate/PSUs and the NGOs, the Publication will enhance the visibility of CSR work that is being undertaken as a CSR mandate of companies/PSUs, and improve their social image. The Document will also help Voluntary Organisations and Corporate Entities to work effectively and ensure proper utilization CSR Funds. The compilation of the Compendium is based on the philosophy of ISRN Relationship Building, Beyond Funding.

    *****


    
    
    DSM/SBS/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495127) Visitor Counter : 122