      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Minister of State (Finance & Corporate Affairs) Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal: India has had a long history of social responsibility; Underlined the need for introducing innovations to be able to effectively contribute to social development and nation building through CSR projects.
      Posted On: 12 JUL 2017 7:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal said that India has had a long history of social responsibility. He underlined the need for introducing innovations to be able to effectively contribute to social development and nation building through CSR projects.


    The MOS (Finance & Corporate Affairs), Shri Meghwal was speaking after releasing a Compendium of CSR: Best Practices in India at a function jointly organised by Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) and Indian Social Responsibility Network (ISRN) at Manesar, District Gurugram in Haryana today.


    Going forward, Shri Meghwal highlighted the role of Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs(IICA) to assist synergy between various stakeholders so that motivated CSR spend can contribute to nation building.


    The function was organized for release of Compendium of CSR: Best Practices in India to highlight and motivate the best CSR practices contributed under CSR projects towards the nation building efforts for sustainable development.


    Dr.Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Member of Parliament & Vice Chairperson, ISRN, who participated as the Guest of Honour, spoke about participative development through CSR and the future journey from innovation to entrepreneurship in CSR. He also lauded the effective role played by the unsung heroes in the NGO sector.


    Shri Om Prakash Sakhlecha, Member of Legislative Assembly, Madhya Pradesh, also addressed the house and suggested that social responsibility in the country should be implemented with passion and conviction.


    Shri Sunil Arora, Director General & CEO, IICA, while giving the welcome address, stressed that CSR implementation should be viewed holistically with special emphasis on fruitful connect between stakeholders so that desired results are achieved.


    Shri Santosh Gupta, CEO, ISRN delivered the introductory remarks and highlighted the process of compilation and usefulness of Compendium of CSR: Best Practices in India.


    Smt. Gayatri Subramaniam, Convener and Chief Programme Executive, National Foundation for Corporate Social Responsibility, proposed the vote of thanks.


    ****************


    DSM/SS/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495393) Visitor Counter : 123