      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Workshop on Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights for Police Officials in collaboration with Telangana Police.
      Posted On: 12 JUL 2017 4:17PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cell for IPR Promotion and Management (CIPAM) under the aegis of the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP), Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Government of India is organizing a workshop on Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights in collaboration with Telanagana Police at Raja Bahadur Venkata Rama Reddy Telangana State Police Academy, Hyderabad from 13th – 14th July, 2017. This workshop is a part of series of capacity building workshops undertaken by CIPAM for strengthening the Enforcement mechanism in the country.
    
    In recent past, multiple workshops on enforcement of IPRs have been organized by CIPAM in states of Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. Additionally, an enforcement workshop has been conducted at North Eastern Police Academy, where officials from nine states participated. Moreover, IPRs have now been made part of the training calendar and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy, Hyderabad and North Eastern Police Academy, Meghalaya. More such training programs are in the pipeline.
    
    These workshops are designed in a manner to ensure that the police officials understand and realise the importance of their role in effective enforcement of IPRs. These workshops includes vide range of topics including counterfeiting and piracy. To ensure effective participation of police officials, various interactive activities like quizzes, skit, IP videos, and case studies etc. are also made part of the workshop besides the regular lecture sessions.
    
    Further, CIPAM has also prepared an IPR Enforcement toolkit for the Police. This toolkit is a ready reckoner for police officials across the country in dealing with IP crimes, specifically Trade Marks counterfeiting and Copyright piracy which is a huge menace to the IP owners not only in India but globally. In addition to details of criminal offences related to these IPs, toolkit also provides checklists for registering a complaint and conducting search and seizures. It also gives suggestive guidelines for search and seizure in case of IP crimes. Toolkit has been disseminated to all State Police Departments and major industry associations across the nation. Toolkit will be an effective tool assisting the enforcement agencies in dealing with the cases relating to Trademarks and Copyrights infringement.
    
    CIPAM is working towards organising more such programs in its journey of making Innovative India, Creative India.

    *****


    
    
    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495307) Visitor Counter : 80