      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Dr Jitendra Singh chairs review meeting to assess situation caused by floods/landslides in Northeast
      Posted On: 13 JUL 2017 4:42PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh chaired a review meeting here today, to assess the situation caused by floods/landslides in Northeast.
    
    During the meeting, Dr Jitendra Singh said that the Central Government is committed to provide all kind of support to the State Governments in rescue and relief operations. He said that the Ministry of DoNER and PMO is closely coordinating with the team led by MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju to assess the situation in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. He said that the damage caused by the rainfall is unprecedented and a total of 58 districts have been affected due to floods/landslides in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Manipur. Around 80 lives have been lost, he added.
    
    The Minister said that the damage caused by the floods/landslides has been contained to large extent by the State Governments and central teams. Dr Jitendra Singh directed that experts from space technology and ISRO be roped in for carrying out an assessment of damage in Northeast. He also suggested that essential items like staple food and baby food made available for the affected people.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh said that he has approached the Health Ministry to undertake measures to prevent outbreak of epidemics and Telecom Ministry for restoration of communication lines. He asked the Resident Commissioners of NE states to work in close coordination with Ministry of DoNER and PMO for further monitoring the situation.
    
    The meeting was attended by Secretary, DoNER Shri Naveen Verma, senior officers from PMO, MHA and Resident Commissioners of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh and Deputy Resident Commissioner of Manipur.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495505) Visitor Counter : 137