      Ministry of Earth Science

      Swachhta Pakhwada (Cleanliness Fortnight) of Ministry of Earth Sciences and its various Organisations was organized from 16th to 30th June, 2017.
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2017 3:19PM by PIB Delhi


    Swachhta Pakhwada (Cleanliness Fortnight) of Ministry of Earth Sciences and its various Organisations was organized from 16 th to 30 th June, 2017. In addition to general cleanliness of the Campus of MoES and its Organisations, some additional activities were carried out like undertaking cleanliness of some villages, donating dustbins to schools and hospitals for maintaining their cleanliness, arranging drawing/ painting competitions among school children for spreading Swachhta awareness etc. The major activities undertaken during the fortnight are:


    i) Cleanliness drive was undertaken at the Bharati Station in Antarctica

                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
Bharati station during winter season
                                    
                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
Mixing plant before cleaning           Mixing plant after cleaning operation         
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
Water treatment plant before cleaning  Water treatment plant after cleaning operation
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                       
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
Kitchen during cleaning operation  Kitchen after cleaning operation
                                                                   
                                                                   

    ii) Cleanliness drive was also undertaken at the Himadri Station in the Arctic


    iii) Cleanliness activities were also undertaken on FORV Sagar Sampada, a research vessel in Bay of Bengal)


  

    (iv) Dustbins were donated to some schools by NCAOR, Goa. IITM, Pune donated dustbins to a hospital in Pune. MoES has decided to donate dustbins, garbage trolleys, waste paper shredder etc to some schools of its adjoining locality at Lodhi Road, New Delhi.


    (v) Plantation of tree saplings was undertaken by the Ministry and its various organizations.


    (vi) CMLRI, Kochi undertook a cleanliness drive in the premises of State Juvenile Home, Kakkanad, Kochi.


    (vii) INCOIS, Hyderabad, adopted a nearby school – Govt Zila Parishad School for undertaking cleanliness drive.


    (viii) NIOT, Chennai undertook cleaning of fishing villages in Kadalur – Periakkum and other adjoining places.


    (ix) India Meteorological Department (IMD) and its various offices located in various parts of the country also organized Swachhta Pakhwada enthusiastically.


    ***


    RDS/nb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495956) Visitor Counter : 228