      Ministry of Communications

      Data is going to drive Telecom Industry in near future-Manoj Sinha India to emerge as a major player in 5G Subscriptions by 2022
      Posted On: 14 JUL 2017 7:59PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The Minister of Communications Shri Manoj Sinha said that the Telecom Ministry is dealing with an extremely dynamic industry and progressive market which is evolving at an extremely rapid rate. He said that with the increase in usage of Smartphones and an exponential increase in broadband usage, data is going to drive industry more and more rather than voice and therefore, the Ministry has initiated a move to relook at the current Telecom Policy through public consultation, as the need of the hour is to ramp up for the Digital era. Speaking at the 10th Anniversary Celebrations of IPTV Society here, Shri Sinha said that whether it is broadband spectrum, Internet adoption/availability, data protection, or cyber security, what was applicable five years back is no more relevant in today’s context, and new policies will need to be futuristic. They will also need to be capable of dealing with India’s challenges and figuring out ways to deal with those challenges.

    
    The Minister said, while the buzz today is 4G, we are already gearing ourselves for introduction of 5G. we need to think of and prepare for an ecosystem where Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) are mainstream, and connectivity is seamless, designed to improve the quality of e-governance and education, as well as to enable financial inclusion, smart cities, and an intelligent transportation system amongst other things. Shri Sinha quoting experts said that India, along with North America, will lead the way in numbers of 5G subscriptions by 2022, and that 5G will speed up the digital transformation in a number of industries, enabling new use cases in areas such as IoT, automation, transport and big data.
    
    Shri Sinha said that Broadband is of vital importance to India, as indeed to all customers globally, to ensure digital connectivity as this is the stepping stone to higher productivity as is proven in many a developed economy. It enhances commerce, improves banking facilities, improves administrative facilities and empowers the public as a whole. Broadband development is the cornerstone of Digital India and every Indian and remotest location will be empowered through the Digital India initiative.
    
    He welcomed Broadband India Forum for bringing out credible Research documents from time to time in the form of white-papers and reports, independently or in combination with reputed research agencies on relevant issues which are of value to all stakeholders and for the future of broadband in India.
    
    The Minister also released a paper by Broadband India Forum and ICRIER which he described is of economic significance for the digital economy concerning ICT Applications.

    <><><><><>


    
    
    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495692) Visitor Counter : 228