      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Dr Jitendra Singh and Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir visit Srinagar
      Visit re-assures that entire country is with all Kashmiris and Yatries
      Posted On: 12 JUL 2017 4:44PM by PIB Delhi


    On the direction of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and the Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh, the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh and the Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir made an emergency visit to Srinagar on July 11-12, 2017, due to the tragic news of terror attack on the Amarnath Yatries.
    
    The two Ministers met the injured Yatries in the SKIMS hospital, before discussing the security situation in detail with the J&K Governor Shri N N Vohra and J&K Chief Minister Ms. Mehbooba Mufti. The Ministers then held a security review meeting with J&K Chief Secretary Shri Bharat Bhushan Vyas, DG CRPF Shri Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar and senior officers of CRPF, Army Commander, BSF and other security agencies, J&K Director General of Police and senior officers of the State Govt. The Ministers had put the entire security apparatus under highest alert, considering the unfortunate loss of life and injuries in this attack.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh and Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir expressed their gratitude for the financial assistance announced by State Government of J&K, Gujarat and Maharashtra and Shri Amarnath Shrine Board to those killed and injured. The Ministers also appreciated the proactive role being played by the entire State Government machinery at all levels and the security agencies particularly J&K Police in this situation.
    
    The visit of Central Ministers stresses the re-assurance that the entire country is with all the Kashmiris and Yatries and that all the arrangements for a safe and secure Yatra will continue with renewed vigor.
    
    Amarnath Yatra is a unique pilgrimage where persons of one faith perform the Yatra and persons belonging to all other faiths play a host in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The tragic terror incident has been condemned by all political parties and various groups across the entire State and the entire Nation, particularly the entire public of Jammu and Kashmir. More than 1.5 Lakh Yatries have already visited the Holy Shrine so far.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495331) Visitor Counter : 36