      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Ministry of Water Resources to Sign MoU with Ministry of Skill Development for the success of Namami Gange
      Posted On: 14 JUL 2017 3:53PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Ministry for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation will sign an MoU with Union Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship for the success of Namami Gange programme in New Delhi tomorrow.


    The MoU intends to develop skilled manpower for laying sewerage pipeline, plumbing works, construction of toilets, civil masonry works, waste collection and its disposal activities. It will also develop skills for preparing products from pious waste materials like flowers, leaves, coconuts, hair and associate plastic bags and plastic bottles etc. and their proper packaging and promotion of such products. The MoU will also help in developing skills for operation and maintenance of pumps and STPs.


    As per the MoU the Ministry of Water Resource, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation shall develop the market for reuse/recycle of treated wastewater to be released from STP/ETPs for various non-potable purposes. It will also ensure necessary coordination and support from the state governments and state level implementing agencies for various activities to be undertaken by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship as part of Namami Gange programme. The Ministry will also mobilize resources for creation of Pradhan Mantri Namami Gange Kaushal Kendras in 60 districts covered under Namami Gange Mission.


    The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship will take initiative and develop programme for capacity building and traditional activities such as packaging and promotion of industrial products. It will take initiative in developing skills for preparing products from waste material generated along that Ghats of Ganga like flowers, leaves, coconut, hair and associated plastic bags and plastic bottles etc. The Ministry will also take initiative in developing skills among potential work-force in the region on sewage pipe line laying works, plumbing works, construction of toilets, civil masonry works, waste collection and its disposal activities (in scientific manner) and training on other health and safety aspects during construction activities. It will also take initiative in conducting a survey in the region for identifying the possible skill development activities in addition to above in conjunction with National Mission for Clean Ganga.


    The MoU will remain in effect for a period of three years. Thereafter, it can be extended as mutually agreed by both the Ministries.


    Samir/JD/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495631) Visitor Counter : 126