      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog sorts out the pending issues of Punjab with various Ministries of Union Government.
      Posted On: 11 JUL 2017 6:51PM by PIB Delhi


    NITI Aayog is closely working with the States to foster cooperative federalism through structured support and mechanisms. One of the mandates assigned to NITI Aayog is to offer a platform for resolution of pending issues with the Central Government to accelerate the implementation of developmental agenda of the States. In this regard, a meeting was held on 11th July, 2017 under the Chairmanship of Dr. Arvind Panagariya, Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog with the Senior Officers of Government of Punjab headed by Chief Secretary Sh. Karan Avtar Singh and officers of Central Ministries. The issues flagged by State Government covering Ministries of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare; Water Resources; and Departments of Revenue and Financial Services of Ministry of Finance were discussed.


    On the issue relating to providing financial support to District Central Cooperative Banks of the States for their sustainable growth, it was agreed in principle to setup an Expert Group under the Chairmanship of Prof.Ramesh Chand, Member, NITI Aayog with members from NABARD, State Governments, RBI, Department of Financial Services and subject experts for evolving possible pathways for strengthening the cooperative banks in the country. It was decided that regulatory issues for cooperative banks would also be discussed by the Expert Group.


    As regards issue of inclusion of livestock and dairy farming as a component in the Crop Diversification Plan under RKVY, the representative of Ministry of Agriculture indicated that there is flexibility under the scheme for states. It was indicated that under the CDP, the State can include green fodder as a crop for replacing area under paddy.


    As regards issue pertaining to clearance of Project for Extension, Renovation and Modernisation of Canals being fed from river Sutlej, the Ministry of Water Resources indicated that the approval would be provided within a week of receipt of revised proposal from the state Government of Punjab. Shri Karan Avtar Singh, Chief Secretary, Punjab expressed satisfaction with the outcome of the meeting and thanked Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog for taking this initiative.


    ***


    AKT/AK/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495188) Visitor Counter : 145