      Ministry of Urban Development

      NDMC Smart City projects given timelines; Rs.1,240 cr worth works to begin in October
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2017 10:14AM by PIB Delhi


    Command & Control Centre, Smart water and power grids, roads, parking, classrooms priority focus


    HUA Ministry asks NDMC to lead by example in smart city making


    Council asked to ensure all citizen services including bus schedules on Smart City 311 platform


    NDMS seeks control over Central Vista for smart management


    School enrollment and OPD registration increased after smart initiatives, says NDMC Chairman


    New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has been asked by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs to ensure completion of smart city projects ahead of time so as to lead by example in smart city making across the country. Timelines for the same have been fixed at a two hour review of implementation of NDMC’s Smart City Plan taken by Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary (Housing & Urban Affairs) last evening. Shri Naresh Kumar, Chairman, NDMC and senior officials of the ministry and the Council attended the review.


    Of the Rs.1,800 cr Smart City Plan of NDMC, work on a range of major impactful projects will begin in phases by October this year, for which tendering is in progress. These include setting up of a Unified Command and Control Centre, Smart water and power grids, multi-level parking at Khan Market, sensor based smart parking, public bike sharing, converting an additional 333 classrooms into smart ones, Sewage Treatment Plants, smart public hygiene centres etc. Smart redesign of 13 roads totaling 31 kms including seven roads leading to Connaught Place will begin much earlier.


    Implementation of projects worth another Rs.500 cr will begin by March next year. These include; India Investment Centre at Yashwant Place, Shivaji Terminal Transport Hub, World Class Skill Centre at Moti Bagh, Incubation Centre, Paryatan Bhawan etc.


    Presenting the details of projects implemented so far, Shri Naresh Kumar, Chairman of NDMC asserted that “NDMC has made a quiet smart beginning with smart solutions initiatives already yielding positive results. Student enrollment and OPD registration have shown good improvement further to converting 444 classrooms so far into smart ones and online registration in hospitals run by the Council. Mobile app Smart City 311 is finding wider traction with citizens availing various services online”.


    Shri Mishra asked NDMC to include more services on 311 app like bus schedules and frequencies at all bus stops, information related to parking lots and availability of slots therein etc. He also directed the Council to ensure all residents of NDMC are brought on this platform besides promoting use of this app among the large floating population.


    Shri Naresh Kumar assured that with most of the projects getting into implementation mode by October this year and the remaining by March next year, all smart city projects will be completed before the scheduled timeline of 2020.


    NDMC Chairman requested the Ministry of HUA to transfer ‘Central Vista’ to the Council for smart redesign and management and was told that it would be considered.


    Voicing concern over sub-optimal utilization of multi-level car parking at Sarojini Nagar, Shri Durga Shanker Mishra asked the Council to come out with an enforcement plan for its full utilization at the earliest. NDMC has also been asked to pursue pedestrianisation of Connaught Place and Khan Market with appropriate action plans.


    Appreciating the Council for the smart city projects implemented so far, Shri Mishra asked the Council to mount a special communication outreach plan for wider dissemination of information about the benefits of these initiatives among the people. He further stressed that benefits of Unified Command and Control Centre, smart water and power grids etc., that result in effective resource management need to be informed to the public for informed participation.


    Informing that NDMC has already commissioned 3.30 MW of solar power by installing solar panels on roof tops of buildings, Shri Naresh Kumar suggested to the Ministry to consider allowing NDMC to install solar panels on central government office buildings either free or on nominal charges.


    Shri D.S.Mishra also asked the Council to convert major parks into smart ones since the same could be done with minimal investments for better feel and experience.


    AAR/KM


    July 16, 2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495727) Visitor Counter : 229