      Ministry of Defence

      Unified Commanders’ Conference Deliberates on Tri-Services Synergy
      Posted On: 11 JUL 2017 6:48PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The two day Unified Commanders’ Conference came to a close on 11 July 2017 at New Delhi. The conference, which was attended by the RM, RRM, NSA, Service Chiefs and senior dignitaries from Tri-Services Establishments and the MoD discussed all relevant issues including functional and operational synergy, enhancement of training curriculum in Armed Forces Training Institutes among others.


    Earlier during the conference, the Defence Secretary apprised the audience that the Defence Cyber & Space Agencies and Special Operations Division will soon become a reality.


    On Day Two of the Conference, one of the highlights was the presentation on ‘Big Data towards Insightful Decision Making’, by the prestigious College of Defence Management. This concept has already been introduced in training curriculum of select senior military officers.


    The Joint curriculum in the prestigious Defence Services Staff College, one of the oldest Tri-Services Institutions in the world, has been increased to over 60%, thus paving the way for an enhanced shared perspective in executing joint operations.


    With the purpose of making the military physical training even more scientific, a decision to incorporate Sports Medicine in the methodology of training cadets, recruits and combat soldiers was also taken. The audience was also informed of the decision to introduce B Tech in the National Defence Academy which will further the technological threshold of future military leaders.


    In his closing remarks, Chairman COSC & CNS, Admiral Sunil Lanba stressed on the significance of synergized execution of operational plans and encouraged all to ensure rigorous cost benefit analysis while creating any new structures. After a fruitful discussion on several other functional Tri-Services issues, Lt Gen Satish Dua, the Chief of Integrated Staff, thanked the gathering for actively participating in the Joint Services deliberations.


    Col Aman Anand


    PRO (Army)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495186) Visitor Counter : 84