      Ministry of Education

      Ranking of Teacher Education Colleges
      Posted On: 17 JUL 2017 4:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The teacher education institutions granted recognition by NCTE for running teacher education courses were asked to provide details of infrastructure, human resource and other facilities available with them through a mandatory disclosure via an Affidavit. A good number of such institutions have failed to respond inspite of advertisements in National Media and requests through bulk SMSs and e-mails. The last date for submission of Affidavit was 12.12.2016. Thereafter, an opportunity was given through requirement to file response to a Show Cause Notice. The last date for this was 8.5.2017. As a result of these two exercises, 8416 Affidavits and 3058 (Show Cause Notice replies) have been received. Another chance has been given to file complete details and also register for accreditation with last date being 31.07.2017.
    
    Several steps are being taken to ensure that sub-standard institutions are identified and suitably dealt with. Towards this end one of the initiatives involves a rigorous accreditation and ranking process called TeachR. NCTE has signed an MoU with Quality Council of India (QCI) s body set up with Cabinet approval and the administrative supervision of DIPP, the Chairman of which is nominated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister.
    
    QCI will assist NCTE in the following:
    
    1. Verify the claims made by TEIs. Details of this verification will be loaded on to a digital platform using which Expert Teacher Educators on the rolls of NCTE will assign marks to each TEI.
    
    2. Deploy video vans that will take one hour video’s on faculty doing actual teaching and 10 minute videos of a sample of students doing practice teaching. These videos will be scored by expert teacher educators on the rolls of NCTE.
    
    3. Conduct proctored test of a sample of students in each TEIs with a view to understanding the extent to which each TEIs has succeeded in ensuring that their students have the attitude, skills and knowledge (ASK) to be a good teacher.
    
    In all of this QCI will be acting on the express directions of NCTE, but the final grading will be assigned by NCTE based on the above described methods.
    
    To this end the regulations have been changed requiring that teacher education institutions which have not been accredited so far, should do so within a period of one year in accordance with the NCTE (Recognition, Norms and Procedure) Amendment Regulations, 2017 notified on 28th April, 2017.
    
    This comprehensive scheme of assessment and ranking called TeachR is uploaded on the NCTE website for information of all stakeholders.
    
    At present, there is no such scheme.
    
    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Shri Upendra Kushwaha today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.

    ****


    
    
    GG/AK/RK/ RANKING OF TEACHER EDUCATION COLLEGES

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495781) Visitor Counter : 86