      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Cabinet approves Development of Four Laning of Solapur-Bijapur Section of New NH-52 in Maharashtra and Karnataka
      Posted On: 12 JUL 2017 2:03PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for 4 Laning of Solapur-Bijapur Section of New NH-52 (formerly NH-13) in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The development of 4 Laning of about 110 km. is estimated to cost approximately Rs.1889 crore including the cost of land acquisition and pre-construction activities.

    
    Impact
    
    At present, the existing road is two- lane and passes through congested towns of Solapur, Takli and Nandani in Maharashtra and Zalki, Horti and Bijapur in Karnataka. It connects Southern India with Northern India and its development will serve as an alternative route to North South Corridor of the National Highways Development Programme. The development to four- lane of this road with bypasses at Solapur, Bijapur and construction of six flyovers would greatly reduce travel time and Vehicle Operating Costs as well as help in expediting the improvement of infrastructure in Maharashtra and Karnataka states. This road is part of the high-density traffic corridor Banglore-Chitradurga-Bijapur-Solapur-Aurangabad-Dhule-lndore-Gwalior.
    
    The provision for two by-passes will ensure decongestion of the urban areas of Solapur and Bijapur. Similarly, the six flyovers would facilitate fast movement of traffic in Solapur, Mandrup, Zalki and Bijapur towns while simultaneously decongesting the areas. The two trucks lay- bys will facilitate smooth movement of freight traffic. The truck drivers would also benefit from the amenities in the two rest areas being developed. On both sides, provision for service roads in 14 km of the project stretch, slip roads in about 40 km and bus shelters at 24 locations will benefit safe, comfortable and smooth movement of long distance commercial traffic as well as movement of local traffic in inhabited/urbanized areas. Tourists will also get benefit of better connectivity to nearby important tourist places of Bijapur, Hampi and Chitradurga.
    
    The project would also increase employment potential for local labourers from project activities. It has been estimated that a total number of 4076 mandays are required for construction of one kilometer of highway. As such, employment potential of 448360 (approx.) mandays will be generated locally during the construction period of this stretch. Consequent self-employment due to improved traffic conditions would be in addition to the above.
    
    Enhanced Connectivity
    
    The important tourist places of Bijapur, Hampi near Hospet and Chitradurga will get enhanced connectivity, while Solapur being a Textile centre will also benefit from the increased economic opportunities. The existing traffic on this stretch is about 20000 PCUs. Keeping in view the expected traffic growth in the near future, the expansion to four Lanes is a very timely step taken by the Government of India.

    ***


    AKT/VBA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495261) Visitor Counter : 242