      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh chairs meeting of Home Minister’s Advisory Committee for Lakshadweep
      Posted On: 13 JUL 2017 5:43PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The meeting of Advisory Committee associated with the Ministry of Home Affairs for the Union Territory of Lakshadweep was held today under the chairmanship of Shri Rajnath Singh.

    
    The members had suggested 79 agenda items relating to different fields of development and security in the Islands of the Union Territory of Lakshadweep. Being very remote areas, issues of connectivity including air connectivity, shipping and internet connectivity were discussed in detail. Agreeing with the request of members, the Home Minister directed that the air connectivity infrastructure should be strengthened and facilities be increased and the matters should be taken up with the Ministry of Civil Aviation. In the shipping sector, it was decided that shipping, port and harbour infrastructure should be improved substantially for which a perspective plan (2015-2030) having, inter alia, provision of induction of 13 ships and vessels has been given ‘No Objection’ by the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Home Affairs would soon take decision on it. Internet connectivity is being improved from 106 mbps to 318 mbps which is to be further improved by laying optical fibre cable for which matter is under process.
    
    The matters relating to land compensation, filling up of vacant posts, education, drinking water supply, power especially clean energy, tourism, fisheries, industries, coastal security and implementation of advance agriculture technologies including polyhouses, drip and sprinkler irrigation etc. were also discussed in detail.
    
    The Home Minister expressed satisfaction on the implementation of different central schemes, such as Housing for All, Aadhar enrolment, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, renewable energy, PAHAL, National Health Mission and the banking facilities. He asked the Ministry to take up all the inter-ministerial matters with the concerned ministries and the Lakshadweep Administration for implementation in a time bound manner. He said that he will personally intervene wherever required for implementation of the recommendations of the Advisory Committee.
    
    The members thanked the Home Minister for enhanced pace of development in the Islands particularly on issues related to Shipping, Health, Power and Drinking Water Supply sectors and hoped that after today’s meeting with the intervention of Home Minister, the speed of development in all the sectors will further improve.
    
    The meeting was attended by Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, Minister of State (Home), Shri Farooz Khan, Administrator, Shri P. P. Mohammed Faizal, MP, UT of Lakshadweep, Dr. Koyamma Koya, Shri P. Jafar Shah, Shri Ponnikkam Shaikoya, Dr. K.P. Koya, Shri M.P. Sayed Mohammed Koya and Dr. Tariz Tomas, Secretary, Union Territory of Lakshadweep. Senior officers of the Ministry of Home Affairs were also present.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/PK/KM/RS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495536) Visitor Counter : 75