      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Funds for Food Processing Industries in Jharkhand
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2017 4:31PM by PIB Delhi


      An amount of Rs. 41.04 Lakh has been released to the projects in Jharkhand under the Ministry’s Scheme for Technology Up-gradation/Establishment/ Modernization of Food Processing Industries and Scheme for Research and Development during 2013-14 as per the details as given below:


      Details of Grant-in-aid released to Units/Establishments in the State of Jharkhand in the year 2013-14


      (a) Scheme for Technology Up-gradation / Establishment / Modernisation of FPIs (TUS)

                                                                                                     
Sl. No.  District          Sector        Project Name            Grant in aid released (Rs. In lakhs)
                                                                                                     
                                                                                                     
                                                                                                     
1.       BOKARO            Rice milling  Sri KhatuShyamUdyog     12.67 (2 nd instalment)             
                                                                                                     
                                                                                                     
                                                                                                     
2.       SINGHBHUM (EAST)  Rice milling  MGR Agro Products Ltd.  25.0 1 st instalment)               
                                                                                                     
                                                                                                     

      (a) Scheme for Research & Development

                                                                                                                                                                                               
Sl. No.  Name of the Project                                                                     Institution / University                                   Grant-in-aid released (Rs. in lakh)
                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                               
1.       Use of Natural Resins and Gums for Preservation and Value Addition of Fishery Products  Indian Institute of Natural Resins & Gums, Namkum, Ranchi  3.376                              
                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                               

      In Jharkhand, the Ministry has operationalized one Mega Food park namely Jharkhand Mega Food Park Pvt. Ltd. at Ranchi in 2016. Another Mega Food Park namely, KaushalTriveni Mega Food Park Ltd., Bokaro has been granted in-principle approval in January, 2017. Ministry has also assisted one Food Testing Laboratory at Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra, Ranchi for which grant-in-aid of Rs.50 lakhs was released.


      T he Ministry of Food Processing Industries has been implementing various Central Sector Schemes for promotion and development of food processing sector in the country. The Schemes of the Ministry are project oriented and not State- specific. Proposals for financial assistance for setting up of projects under various schemes are invited through Expression of Interest which are published in print and electronic media. Entrepreneurs have the freedom to choose the location of the project based on availability of raw material, techno-economic feasibility and viability of the project.


      This information was given by the Minister of Food Processing Industries Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha.


      ********


      SBS/Sunita

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496189) Visitor Counter : 58