      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Educationally Empowering of Poor Minority Communities
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2017 5:30AM by PIB Delhi


      The Ministry of Minority Affairs is already implementing the following schemes throughout the country for educational empowerment of the poor and marginalized section of the six (6) minority communities (i.e. Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Parsis and Jains) notified by the Central Government :


      1. Pre-Matric Scholarship Scheme.


      2. Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme.


      3. Merit-cum-Means based Scholarship Scheme.


      4. Maulana Azad National Fellowship.


      5. Free Coaching and Allied Scheme.


      6. Padho pardesh - Scheme of interest subsidy on educational loans for overseas studies for the students belonging to the minority communities.


      7. Support for Minority Students clearing Prelims conducted by Union Public Service Commission, Staff Selection Commission, State Public Service Commissions etc.


      8. Multi-sectoral Development Programme (MsDP): Financial assistance is provided to State Governments for infrastructure development of Anganwadi Centres, Schools Colleges, ITIs, Polytechnics etc.


      9. Nai Manzil Scheme – An integrated education and livelihood initiative for minority communities, targeted to deal with school dropouts by imparting formal education and skills.


      10. Schemes of Maulana Azad Educational Foundation (MAEF) -


      (i) Begum Hazrat Mahal National Scholarship for Meritorious Girls belonging to Minorities.


      (ii) Grants-in-Aid to NGOs for providing financial assistance to NGOs for infrastructure development of educational institutions.


      Details of schemes, mentioned at serial no. 1 to 9 are available on the website of this Ministry i.e. www.minorityaffairs.gov.in . whereas details of the schemes mentioned at serial no. 10 is available on www.maef.nic.in .


      This information was given by Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi the Minister of State (IC) for Minority Affairs, in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


      .******


      AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496086) Visitor Counter : 162
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil