      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh chairs meeting of Home Minister’s Advisory Committee for Daman & Diu
      Posted On: 20 JUL 2017 8:04PM by PIB Delhi


      The meeting of Advisory Committee associated with the Minister of Home Affairs for the UT of Daman & Diu was held here today under the Chairmanship of Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh.


      Shri Rajnath Singh mentioned that he had visited Daman & Diu during February last year and reviewed coastal security, development and governance issues. The Home Minister reviewed the status of implementation of different Central Schemes such as Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, PAHAL, Aadhar enrolment, Aadhar seeding of Bank accounts, DBT and PM Mudra Yojana. He expressed his satisfaction on the progress made in various sectors in the Union Territory of Daman & Diu.


      The members of the Advisory Committee had suggested 36 agenda items relating to different fields of developments in the UT of Daman & Diu. The matters relating to improving the air and road connectivity were discussed in detail. The Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation informed that for the overall development of air connectivity in Diu district, 4 days a week flights are operating between Mumbai-Diu-Mumbai. He further informed that under the Regional Connectivity Scheme (UDAN) of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, seven days connectivity to Diu airport for operating flights between Ahmedabad-Diu-Ahmedabad will be operational shortly.


      During the meeting it was informed that UT Administration has decided to set up an engineering college at Daman from the next academic year. It was also informed that UT Administration is also planning to start shipping training institute in Diu shortly. Discussion also centered around several projects pertaining to mini harbor in Daman, better medical facilities, improvement of roads, development of tourism and, river front development. Directions were given for expediting other ongoing development project works like laying of water supply pipelines, laying of gas pipeline and sewerage system in the UT area. The facilities of ferry boat and floating restaurant to upgrade tourism and development of mini harbor facilities for Daman were also discussed. The recruitment of specialist doctors and filling up of vacant posts in the police department for better police facilities were emphasized.


      The meeting was attended by Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, Minister of State (Home), Shri Prafulbhai Khodabhai Patel, Administrator, Daman & Diu, Home Secretary, OSD(Home), Secretary, M/o Civil Aviation, senior officers of Ministries of Home Affairs, Culture and Environment, Forest and Climate Change and members of the Home Minister’s Advisory Committee for the UT of Daman & Diu.


      ******


      KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496504) Visitor Counter : 35