      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Forecast for rapid rise in water levels of rivers in South Odisha, South Chhattisgarh, North Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Vidarbha
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2017 8:10PM by PIB Delhi


    Forecast of heavy to very heavy rain at a few places with extremely heavy rainfall at one or two places have been given by IMD in association with a depression which is affecting the coastal areas of Odisha and North Andhra Pradesh during the next 48 hours. The rainfall belt is likely to shift to South Chhatisgarh, Vidarbha, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh during the subsequent 48 hours. There is forecast of heavy to very heavy rain at few places with isolated heavy rain in Konkan and Goa, heavy to very heavy rain in coastal Karnataka and South Interior Karnataka during the next three days.


    Due to this, river Vamsadhara, Nagavali, Godavari and its tributaries, Upper Krishna and its tributaries, Tapi and its tributaries, Damanganga are likely to observe rapid rise in water levels.


    Presently, river levels are above warning level at Kashinagar on river Vamsadhara in Rayagada district of Odisha with falling trend, Jagdalpur on river Indravati are flowing in low flood situation with rising trend respectively. Remaining river levels in the basins of Nagavali, Godavari, Krishna, Tapi and Damanganga are below warning level.


    The likely impact of these rains as inferred from rainfall runoff model run for next three days advisory forecast are likely to rise the river levels in the following basins as under:


    Vamsadhara Basin: River water levels likely to remain in low to moderate flood levels in Rayagada district of Odisha and Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh in the next two days.


    Nagavali Basin: River water level likely to remain in low to moderate flood situation in Nagavali Basin in Rayagada district of Odisha, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts of Andhra Pradesh.


    Godavari Basin: River Indravati is likely to flow in moderate to high flood situation in Nowrangpur district of Odisha, Bastar, Bijapur, Narayanpur and Kondagaon districts of Chhattisgarh.


    River Sabari is likely to flow in moderate to high flood situation in Koraput and Malkangiri districts of Odisha, Sukma district of Chhatisgarh, East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh.


    River Godavari is likely to rise rapidly in districts of Jayashankar and Bhadradri in Telangana and in East and West Godavari districts of Andhra Pradesh where it will flow very near to low flood situation and in some places may flow in low to moderate flood situation.


    Krishna Basin: River Paleru, Munneru, Wyra in Warangal, Mahbubabad and Khammam districts of Telangana and in Guntur and Krishna districts of Andhra Pradesh may also rise and flow in low to moderate flood situation.


    River Krishna is likely to flow in low to moderate flood situation in Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli districts of Maharashtra and in Bagalkote and Vijayapura districts of Karnataka. Inflows into Almatti Dam in Vijayapura district of Karnataka is likely to rise during the next three to four days. The river is also likely to flow in low flood situation in Guntur and Krishna districts of Andhra Pradesh.


    Tapi Basin: River Tapi is expected to rise after next two days in association with the shift of the depression in west northwest direction. Inflows in to Hathnur dam is likely to increase after next two when the rainfall belt shifts.


    Damanganga Basin: River Damanganga is likely to rise and flow in low to moderate flood situation in Nasik district of Maharashtra, Valsad district of Gujarat and UT of Daman and Diu during the next threee to four days.


    Inflows into dams in Vamsadhara, Nagavali, Godavari and its tributaries such as Indravathi, Sabari, Upper Krishna basins may also increase very rapidly but since there is sufficient storage available in the reservoirs, releases if any may be done judiciously taking into account the downstream rainfall conditions and river positions.


    Samir/JD/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496074) Visitor Counter : 51