      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Anti-Naxal measures
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2017 4:57PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The Government has a comprehensive National Policy and Action Plan in place under which a multi-pronged strategy is being implemented to deal with Left Wing Extremism. This strategy is centered around security related measures, developmental interventions and ensuring rights & entitlements of local communities etc. Security related measures include assistance to LWE affected States by providing CAPF Bns, training assistance and funds for modernization of State Police Forces, arms & equipment, sharing of intelligence etc. On the development side, apart from flagship schemes of the Central Government in infrastructure, education, health, skill development, agriculture etc several initiatives have been taken specifically for development of Left Wing Extremism Affected areas. These include focused schemes for development of roads, installation of mobile towers, skill development, improving network of banks and post offices, health and education facilities.

    
    States have their own surrender policies for encouraging Left Wing Extremists to join the mainstream. The Central Government also has a comprehensive 'Surrender-cum-Rehabilitation Scheme of Left Wing Extremists in the affected States' to allow Left Wing Extremists to return to the mainstream. The rehabilitation package inter-alia, includes an immediate grant of Rs. 2.5 lakhs for higher ranked LWE cadres and Rs.1.5 lakhs for middle/ lower rank LWE cadre surrenderees to be kept in their name as fixed deposit which may be withdrawn after completion of 3 years subject to good behavior. They are also imparted training in a trade/ vocation of their liking and are paid a monthly stipend of Rs. 4000/- for three years. In addition, incentives for surrender of weapons/ ammunition are also provided under the Scheme. The Government of India provides reimbursement of expenditure incurred by the LWE affected States on rehabilitation of surrenderees in this policy under the SRE Scheme.
    
    The Central Government will consider engaging in dialogue with the Left Wing Extremists only if they renounce violence and express faith in the democratic process and Constitution of India.
    
    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in a written reply to question by Shri Kaushalendra Kumar in the Lok Sabha today.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK/RS-324

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496012) Visitor Counter : 92