      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Development of Processed Food Sector & Awareness Thereof
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2017 4:30PM by PIB Delhi

      

      The Ministry of Food Processing Industries has a separate scheme for the Promotional Activities, Advertisements, Publicity, Studies & surveys to create awareness of plan schemes and to encourage investment in food processing which are aimed at creating infrastructure and facilities for food processing industries for reducing wastages, enhancing preservation, extending shelf life and processing of perishables resulting in increase of income of farmers.


      The promotional activities of the Ministry are aimed at the development of the processed food sector, creating awareness among all stakeholders including farmers, attracting investment etc. Participation in national/international exhibitions/ fairs is made to disseminate information including Farmer Producers Organizers (FPOs), Micro, Small and Medium Entrepreneurs regarding food processing industries, familiarizing the existing and prospective entrepreneurs with modern techniques of production and packaging, development of market and popularization of products. Research and development innovations are also showcased amongst farmers and processors. Assistance is provided for organization of national/international seminars / workshops of pan India nature which are spearheaded by apex industry bodies like CII, FICCI, ASSOCHAM, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, All India Food Processors Association (AIFPA), Central Government Autonomous Bodies and Public sector Undertakings in the field of food processing industry for this purpose.


      Government of India has approved a new Central Sector Scheme – KISAN SAMPADA YOJANA (KSY) for the period upto 2019-20 to be implemented by Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI). Under KSY, a new Scheme for Creation of Backward and Forward Linkages has been approved. The objective of the scheme is to provide effective and seamless backward and forward integration for processed food industry by plugging the gaps in supply chain in terms of availability of raw material and linkages with the market. The scheme will enable linking of farmers to processors and the market thereby ensuring remunerative prices for their produce. The new scheme for creation of capacities under Kisan Sampada Yojna will also assist in creating linkages between farmers & FPIs to reduce the wastage of perishable commodities.


      In addition to this, Government of India under Kisan Sampada Yojna is also implementing the Mega Food Park and Cold Chain Schemes which also aim to reduce post-harvest losses of horticulture and non-horticulture produce and providing remunerative price to farmers for their produce.


      This was information given by the Minister of State for Ministry of Food Processing Industries Ms. Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha.


      ********


      SBS/Sunita


    

    
    (Release ID: 1496187) Visitor Counter : 246