      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh chairs meeting of Home Minister’s Advisory Committee for Dadra and Nagar Haveli
      Posted On: 21 JUL 2017 6:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The meeting of Home Minister Advisory Committee for Union Territory Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) was held here today under the Chairmanship of Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh. The Union Territory was represented by Shri Prafulbhai Khodabhai Patel, Administrator, Shri Natubhai Patel, Member of Parliament and other Members.


    The meeting reviewed the action taken and progress made on 40 agenda points covering a wide spectrum of issues pertaining to the Union Territory. 15 ongoing projects were discussed in detail including those relating to the proposed medical college in DNH, increase in allocation of engineering and medical quota seats, further empowerment of the Panchayats as per the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Regulation Act, 2012 and other administrative matters. Infrastructure projects such as the completion of 11.3 kms ring road at Silvassa, setting up of a sewerage treatment plant, improvement in connectivity and the construction of a sports complex at Saily were also reviewed.


    In addition, the Committee took up 25 other proposals based on suggestions of members. These included schemes and gaps in the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme, programmes and achievements under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, measures for improvement in the tourism potential, action required to promote and upgrade education level particularly among tribals, setting up of university at DNH, streamlining of disbursement of pension to the aged, widows and handicapped persons etc. Additional proposals including a pilot project to construct high quality Housing and Skill Development, including communication and behavioral skills, for tribals were also deliberated upon. Members, requested assistance from Union Health Ministry in treating leprosy cases in the area.


    The Union Home Minister appreciated the efforts made by the Administrator and his team for speeding up and streamlining the project delivery in the area. He exhorted the Union Territory Administration to further increase its efforts so that Dadra and Nagar Haveli could become a showcase for the rest of the country. He assured the participants that the Ministry had taken due cognizance of the proposal and suggestions and would extend all assistance and liaison to bring them to fruition. He thanked the Members for the extremely fruitful and detailed deliberation and assured that he would consider the invitation extended by the Committee to visit the area.


    Other participants of the meeting included Shri Rajiv Mehrishi, Union Home Secretary, Shri Shri Rajiv Gauba, Officer on Special Duty (Home), Shri Yudhvir Singh Malik, Secretary MORTH, Shri Hari Krishna Paliwal, Advisor and other officers of the MHA and representative of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs were also present.


    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496795) Visitor Counter : 41