      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Performance of NMCP
      Posted On: 17 JUL 2017 11:26AM by PIB Delhi


    National Manufacturing Competitiveness Programme (NMCP) seeks to enhance the competitiveness of manufacturing Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) through following interventions:


    i. Lean Manufacturing Competitiveness Scheme (LMCS)


    ii. Design Clinic Scheme,


    iii. Technology & Quality UP-gradation support for MSMEs (TEQUP)


    iv Digital MSME Scheme,


    v. Building Awareness on Intellectual Property


    vi. Enabling Manufacturing Sector to be Competitive through Quality Management Standards (QMS) and Quality Technology Tools (QTT) (This component has been subsumed under Zero Defect Zero Effect (ZED) Certification scheme.


    vii. Entrepreneurial & Managerial Development of SMEs through incubators


    (The growth of any enterprise including MSMEs depends upon various factors within and outside the enterprise. The NMCP is designed to increase their competitiveness through the aforesaid interventions which are by and large soft interventions. Thus, NMCP interventions are only one of the factors that contribute to the growth of MSMEs.


    Budget allocation for NMCP during last 5 years (from 2012-13 to 2016-17) is Rs. 429.50 crores .


    NMCP is a demand driven programme designed to make MSMEs competitive in domestic and international markets as per the approved guidelines of its various interventions. There are enabling provisions for providing professional consultants and expert agencies to MSMEs in NMCP components like LMCS, Design etc. Moreover, financial assistance is also made available for acquisition of energy efficient technology.


    This Press Release is based on information given by the Minister of State for MSME Shri Haribhai Parathibhai Chaudhary in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha on 17.07.2017 (Monday).


    ********


    AK/RM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496123) Visitor Counter : 195