      AYUSH

      32 Yoga Teachers deployed to 28 countries to lead yoga demonstrations abroad for IDY 2017
      Posted On: 21 JUL 2017 6:03PM by PIB Delhi


    

    For the celebration of the International Day of Yoga in other countries, Indian Missions/Posts were advised to involve internationally renowned Yoga organizations like Art of Living Global Centre, Gayatri Parivar, Isha Foundation Global, Iyengar Yoga Foundation etc. for the celebrations. The vast scale of celebration resulted in renewed interest in and awareness about yoga and its benefits amongst local population of the host countries. Indian Missions/Posts abroad organized events both prior to and on the International Day of Yoga. The focus, was to involve organizations in the host countries engaged in promoting Yoga.

    
    32 Yoga Teachers from India were deployed to 28 countries to lead the demonstration at the main events in foreign countries. Yoga Khadi kits procured directly from the KVIC were provided to 110 Indian/Missions Posts abroad as part of the IDY celebrations.
    
    Within the country, the main event of International Day of Yoga was held at Lucknow, in which Hon’ble Prime Minister participated along with around 51,000 people.
    
    Through Central Council for Research in Yoga and Naturopathy (CCRYN) International Day of Yoga programe was conducted in 624 districts of the country. Besides this, NCC, NSS, Nehru Yuva Kendras, Yoga organizations, School/Colleges, State governments and various central government Ministries/Departments and subordinate offices also participated actively.
    
    The Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY) conducts Education Courses i.e. Degree, Diploma and Certificate Courses in Yoga Science, intended to produce Yoga professionals to impart Yoga Education, Training & Therapy to the people including foreign nationals.
    
    The International Coordination Division of the Ministry facilitates deputation of Yoga professionals to other countries whenever such proposals are received.
    
    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.

    ****


    NB/SK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496684) Visitor Counter : 100