      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Industrially Backward States
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2017 2:56PM by PIB Delhi


    The primary responsibility of industrial development of backward areas rests with the State Governments. The Union Government supplements their efforts through various Schemes launched by it with a view to promote industrialization in industrially backward areas of the Country. Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) was implementing Schemes for development of North East region and Special Package Scheme for Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu & Kashmir, which have now ended.


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) in its meeting held on 15.11.2016 approved the constitution of a Committee under the Chairmanship of CEO, NITI Aayog consisting of Secretaries of Ministries/ Departments of Development of North Eastern Region, Expenditure, Commerce, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Textiles, Tourism, Health & Family Welfare, Power and Industrial Policy and Promotion to examine and suggest a Road map for New Industrial Policy for North Eastern and Himalayan States. The Committee is deliberating on future policy for North Eastern and Himalayan States.


    In addition, DIPP was also implementing Modified Industrial Infrastructure Up-gradation Scheme (MIIUS) for establishment of common industrial infrastructure in industrial clusters in the country. Under the Scheme, projects have been undertaken to upgrade infrastructure in existing Industrial Parks/Estates/Areas. Twenty three projects were accorded final approval under the Scheme including 6 projects in the States of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Mizoram and Tripura. These projects on completion are likely to provide direct and indirect employment in the above clusters and also lead to growth of industries.


    This information was given by the Commerce and Industry Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman in a written reply in Lok Sabha today


    ****


    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496861) Visitor Counter : 143