      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Showcasing Strength of Indian Footwear Industry
      India International Footwear Fair 2017 at Pragati Maidan
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2017 4:34PM by PIB Delhi


      A B2B treasure trove of footwear fashion brands and its retail industry will be featured at the 3 rd edition of India International Footwear Fair 2017 (IIFF) in Hall 14 and 18 at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi from August 4 to 6, 2017. The fair is being organized by India Trade Promotion Organization (ITPO) especially when the exhibition complex is being revamped as the world class Integrated Exhibition-cum-Convention Centre.


      This year, buyers will find new designs of innovative shoes based on aesthetics, design, fluidity and functionality in the fair. The event celebrates upcoming trends and style to recognize innovation and breakthrough talent on a national scale. IIFF features emerging technologies keeping in pace with the rapidly changing buyers’ needs and ushers in fresh opportunities in Indian footwear market and challenges.


      The event is being organized in collaboration with the Confederation of Indian Footwear Industries (CIFI) with support of the Council for Leather Exports (CLE), Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI) and Indian Footwear Components of Manufacturers Association (IFCOMA).


      As many as 150 leading Indian companies are taking part in this three day event. There will be 100 foreign participants from China, Taiwan and Italy. Display profile covers footwear & footwear components, accessories, synthetic material & PVC/PU, chemicals, machineries, equipment and technologies.


      This year, the fair has tremendous significance especially when a unified Goods and Services Tax (GST) has been brought into effect in the country to re-shape India’s business landscape by making the country an easier place to do business. Apart from unveiling the export potential of India, IIFF aims to project India as a favorite investment destination.


      India is the second largest global producer of footwear after China, accounting for 9.57% of global footwear production of 23.00 billion pairs. India produces 2200 million pairs of different categories of footwear, out of which, 95% is being sold in the domestic market. The major production centers in India are: Chennai, Ranipet and Ambur in Tamil Nadu, Udyong Nagar, Mangolpuri and Narela in New Delhi, Kanpur, Agra, Noida and Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, Jalandhar and Ludhiana in Punjab, Karnal, Sonepat, Faridabad, Gurgaon and Bahadurgarh in Haryana, Pune and Mumbai in Maharashtra, Kolkata in West Bengal, Jaipur in Rajashtan, Calicut and Ernakulam in Kerala. About 1.10 million workers are engaged in the footwear manufacturing industry.


      Footwear exported from India are: Dress Shoes, Casuals, Moccasins, Sport Shoes, Horrachies, Sandals, Ballerinas, Boots, Sandals and Chappals made of rubber, plastic, P.V.C. and other materials like PU and EVA.


      .*******


      MJPS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1496087) Visitor Counter : 73