      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Kiren Rijiju attends the Closing Ceremony of CAPF U-19 Football Talent Hunt Tournament Phase-III (Girls)
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2017 12:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju attended the Closing Ceremony of CAPF U-19 Football Talent Hunt Tournament Phase-III (Girls), here yesterday. On the occasion Shri Kiren Rijiju, congratulated the players and organizers of Oorja. He said that sports should be a part of our life and we should popularize football among youth. The DGs of all Central Armed Police Forces, officers of All India Police Sports Control Board and CAPFs were also present besides hundreds of people and students.


    A football match was played between Legends of Football “Bhaichung XI and Oorja XI”. The prominent & veteran players of the country comprising Bhaichung XI and the selected boys’ from 12,600 under-19 players of the country under Oorja XI, played the match. The match was full of zeal, energy and speed and was ultimately draw with each team scoring one goal each. Shri Bhaskar Ganguly, the Footballer, was felicitated with Rs.5 Lakh cheque by the Chief Guest Shri Kiren Rijiju on this occasion. After the Legends of Football match, final of Girls under-19 was played between Manipur v/s Haryana, which was won by Manipur by 5-1 goals.


    Later in an award ceremony Girls’ winner and runner up teams and players of Bhaichung XI and Oorja XI were felicitated.


    The Central Armed Police Forces are conducting under-19 (Male/Female) Football Talent Hunt Tournament-2017 under the name of “Oorja”. This talent hunt was started from April-2017 and now it is in its last leg “3 rd Phase”. The last phase of ‘Oorja’ is going to culminate today at Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium, New Delhi.


    Smt. Archana Ramasundaram, DG, SSB thanked organizers for successful conduct of the tournament.


    ******


    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496101) Visitor Counter : 112