      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Delivery of Public Services
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2017 4:01PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Guidelines have been issued to all the Ministries/Departments of Central Government to ensure that the Citizens' Charter of the Ministries/Departments and their subordinate Organizations, inter-alia incorporating list of services, service standards and timelines, are duly uploaded and updated on the respective websites. For timely and effective redressal of grievances, an online Centralized Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) is operational. A Public Grievances Call Centre has been set up for reminding the concerned Ministries/Departments receiving bulk of the grievances in the Central Government, for expediting action on grievances pending on CPGRAMS for more than two months.

    
    Grievance Analysis Study has been conducted in respect of Ministries/Departments receiving bulk of the grievances. Systemic Reforms have been put in place in consultation with concerned Ministries/Departments.
    
    The Government is committed to ensuring efficient and timely delivery of public services, including timely and effective redressal of grievances of citizens related to non delivery of entitled goods and services by the Government. For this purpose, Delivery of Services and Grievances Redressal Scheme has been prepared and is in the process of stakeholders consultation. The ambit of the Scheme inter-alia includes goods and services being offered by the public authorities of the Government. The Scheme also has provisions for administrative action with respect to delays, among others in provision of designated services in specified timeframe.
    
    This was stated by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh in a written reply to question by Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey in the Lok Sabha today.

    ********


    
    
    KSD/NK/KM/AK/496

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496175) Visitor Counter : 47