      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Construction of Greenfield Airports
      Posted On: 20 JUL 2017 7:11PM by PIB Delhi


    Government of India (GoI), Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has granted 'in principle' approval for setting up of 18 Greenfield Airports in the country. The list of these airport along with the estimated cost is as under: Mopa in Goa (approx. Rs. 3100 cr), Navi Mumbai (approx. Rs. 16704 cr), Shirdi (approx. Rs. 320.54 cr) and Sindhudurg (approx. Rs. 520 cr) in Maharashtra, Bijapur (approx. Rs. 150 cr), Gulbarga (approx. Rs. 13.78 cr in initial phase), Hasan (approx. Rs. 592 cr) and Shimoga (approx. Rs. 38.91 cr) in Karnataka, Kannur in Kerala (approx. Rs. 1892 cr), Durgapur in West Bengal (approx. Rs. 670 cr), Dabra in Madhya Pradesh (approx. Rs. 200 cr), Pakyong in Sikkim (approx. Rs. 553.53 cr), Karaikal in Puducherry (approx. Rs.170 cr), Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh (approx. Rs. 448 cr), Dholera in Gujarat (approx. Rs. 1712 cr) and Dagadarthi Mendal, Nellore Dist. (approx. Rs. 293 cr), Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram District near Visakhapatnam (approx. Rs. 2260 cr) and Oravakallu in Kurnool District (approx. Rs. 200 cr), Andhra Pradesh. The timeline for construction of airport projects depends upon many factors such as land acquisition, availability of mandatory clearances, financial closure, etc. by the individual operator.
    
    The construction of airport project depends upon many factors such as land acquisition, availability of mandatory clearances, financial closure, etc. by the individual operator. The State Government of Maharashtra has completed the tendering process and M/s. MIAL is the highest bidder.
    
    During the last three years and the current year, MoCA, GoI has received the following proposals for setting up of Greenfield Airports: Ankleshwar in Gujarat, Bhiwadi (district Alwar) in Rajasthan, Dagadarthi (Nellore), Bhogapuram (Vizianagaram), Tadepalligudem (West Godavari), Oravakallu (Kurnool) and Kuppam (Chittor) in Andhra Pradesh, Chingleput near Chennai, Gwalior and Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh, Hisar in Haryana, Kothagudem (Khammam) in Telangana, Noida International Airport near Jewar, Saifai (Etawah) in Uttar Pradesh, Shivdaspur in Jaipur, Karwar and Chickmagaluru in Karnataka and Rajkot in Gujarat. GoI has granted 'site clearance' approval for setting up of Greenfield Airport at Bhiwadi (district Alwar) in Rajasthan, Kothagudem (Khammam) in Telangana, Rajkot in Gujarat and Noida International Airport near Jewar in Uttar Pradesh and 'in principle' approval for setting up of Dagadarthi (Nellore), Bhogapuram (Vizianagaram) and Oravakallu (Kurnool) in Andhra Pradesh.
    
    This information was given by the Minister of State for Civil Aviation Shri Jayant Sinha in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.

    ******


    
    
    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496485) Visitor Counter : 321