      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Schemes for Minorities in Rural areas
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2017 5:32PM by PIB Delhi


    T his Ministry of Minority Affairs is currently implementing the following schemes/programmes in the country, including rural areas, for upliftment of the minorities, namely, Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Parsis and Jains:-


    (1) Pre-Matric Scholarship Scheme


    (2) Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme


    (3) Merit-cum-Means based Scholarship Scheme


    (4) Maulana Azad National Fellowship for minority


    (5) Free coaching and allied Scheme


    (6) “Padho Pardesh”– Scheme of Interest Subsidy on Educational Loans for Overseas Studies for the Students belonging to the Minority Communities


    (7) Support for students clearing Prelims conducted by UPSC, SSC, State Public Service Commission (PSC) etc. (Nai Udaan)


    (8) Jiyo Parsi


    (9) Nai Roshni


    (10) Seekho Aur Kamao


    (11) Nai Manzil


    (12) USTTAD (Upgrading the Skills and Training in Traditional Arts/Crafts for Development)


    (13) Multi Sectoral Development Programme (MsDP), Centrally Sponsored Scheme, is implemented in 710 Minority Concentration Blocks, 66 Minority Concentration Towns & Clusters of Contiguous Villages. This programme provides financial support for creation of assets for education (viz., school buildings, ACRs, Polytechnics, ITIs , Hostels, etc.), Health Centers, SadbhavMandap, Drinking Water Project, Road, Income Generation Projects etc. to States/UTs.


    (14) Grants-in-Aid to NGOs/Trust/Society {implemented through Maulana Azad Education Foundation (MAEF)}.


    (15) Begum Hazrat Mahal National Scholarship for Meritorious Girls belonging to the Minorities(implemented through MAEF).


    (16) Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Training for providing short-term job oriented skill development courses to youths belonging to minority communities (implemented through MAEF).


    (17) In addition, National Minorities Development and Finance Corporation (NMDFC), a CPSE under this Ministry, provides concessional loans to minorities for self-employment and income generating ventures. The schemes of NMDFC are implemented through respective State Channelizing Agencies.


    The details of the schemes at serial No. (1) to (13) are available on the website of this Ministry ( www.minorityaffairs.gov.in ), those at serial No. (14) to (16) are available on the website of MAEF ( www.maef.nic.in ) and at serial No. 17 are available on the website of NMDFC ( www.nmdfc.org ).


    The Government has undertaken multi-media campaign to spread awareness of welfare schemes meant for minorities through print and electronic media, namely Doordarshan Network, All India Radio Network including FM Channels, private FM channels, private TV channels and websites all over the country, including rural areas. Pocket booklets and pamphlets on various schemes / programmes of the Ministry have been published in Hindi, English, Urdu and other regional languages. In order to directly reach to the public and spread awareness, ‘Progress Panchayats’ were organized in various places including Mewat in Haryana and Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand. Regional Coordination & Review Conference are also held with State Governments from time to time where, inter-alia, information about the Ministry’s scheme is provided. In addition, outdoor publicity has also been done by organizing ‘Hunar Haat’ at India International Trade Fair 2016 and at Baba Kharak Singh Marg, New Delhi from 11.2.2017 to 26.2.2017 to promote traditional crafts/arts and strengthen their markets linkages.


    The State-wise and Scheme-wisedetails of persons benefited/funds allocated/spentunder different schemes of the Ministry, including Maharashtra, during each of the last three years and the current year are on the website of the Ministry at www.minorityaffairs.gov.in.


    This information was given by Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, the Minister of State (IC) for Minority Affairs, in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    .******


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496084) Visitor Counter : 300