      Ministry of Urban Development

      DDA to call bids for integrated city projects at Dwaka, Narela, Rohini early next month
      
      
      Yamuna Bank Development works to begin in October this year
      
      Drawings and plans for making Airport-Connnaught Place world class by December
      
      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs asks DDA to be more pro-active in making Delhi a world class capital; performance to be reviewed every quarter

      Posted On: 21 JUL 2017 6:10PM by PIB Delhi

    

    Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will invite bids in the second week of next month for building integrated cities with smart features at Dwarka, Narela and Rohini and the developers will be selected by October this year. Timelines for execution of various new projects by DDA were today firmed up at a review meeting chaired by Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary (Housing & Urban Affairs) today.

    
    Shri Uday Pratap Singh, Vice-Chairman of DDA and senior officials of the Ministry attended the one and a half hour review of various projects of DDA.
    
    Shri Mishra urged DDA to be more pro-active in making Delhi a world class capital city by focusing on development function, policy and process re-engineering. He stressed on the need for delivery of quality services and performance orientation. Progress of various projects and new initiatives will be reviewed once in every three years, he said.
    
    For meeting the futuristic needs of the Government and providing facilities that the private sector tends to ignore and catalyzing a change in Delhi at par with neighbouring cities through signature development, DDA has proposed to develop integrated cities with smart features on available vacant lands at Dwarka (200 hectares), Narela (218 hec) and Rohini (259 hec).
    
    The scope of work in this regard has been so defined to enable overall integration with the city enhancing Delhi’s image, liveability, quality of life, value of the existing and future assets of DDA and the residents of these proposed sub-cities.
    
    DDA has agreed to start Yamuna bank development works over an area of 500 acres along Old Railway Bridge – ITO barrage stretch by 2nd of October this year. Works proposed to be taken up include enhancement of ecological features of the floodplains, creating a 300 meter wide Green buffer from the edge of the river, 100-150 meter Greenway along the road embankment, recreational areas along the greenways, desilting of storm water drains, creation of wetland systems to enable flow of clean water in to the river etc. A detailed plan in this regard will be prepared by the fifteenth of next month.
    
    It was also decided that the road between Indira Gandhi International Airport and Connaught Place will be developed to global standards by March, 2020 for which final drawings will be got approved by December this year. One of the four alignments proposed by the Consultant will be finalized early next month.
    
    Works proposed to be taken up in this regard include integrated Transit Corridor Development, street network and connectivity plan for the corridor and influence zone, detailed designing of all intersections and mid sections based on traffic studies, improving riding quality, drainage, amenities, greenery, signages, pavements, access to police patrol and emergency services, toilets etc.
    
    Regarding refurbishment of commercial centres viz., Nehru Place, Bhikaji Cama Place and Basant Lok Community Centre, after reviewing the plans proposed by DDA, Shri Durga Shanker Mishra asked DDA include improvements inside the buildings of these centres given the poor state of infrastructure, maintenance and poor visual presentation. DDA was asked to convene a meeting with South MCD and traders’ associations for enabling such interventions. It was suggested that if required, South MCD should enforce proper infrastructure and its upkeep inside the buildings for security and for better visual presentation.
    
    Expressing concern over negligible adoption of ICT by DDA so far, Shri Mishra complimented DDA VC Shri Uday Pratap Singh for initiating a ERP based Comprehensive Digital Services Architecture plan to be implemented in two years from the award of work to enable comuterised management systems for quick decision making and providing all services online to the public including grievance redressal.
    
    DDA was also asked to mount intensive campaign about the improvements made inside the houses and infrastructure availability at the locations at which DDA has offered about 25,000 dwelling units in various categories in its latest scheme.
    
    AAR/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496688) Visitor Counter : 68