      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Allotment of temporary COCO Outlets to SC, ST & Women Beneficiaries
      195 temporary COCOS allotted in Total; 114 allotted to Women Beneficieries
      
      Ministry committed to Increase percentage of SC/ ST in RO dealership – Shri Pradhan
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2017 5:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The allotment letters of temporary COCO outlets to SC, ST & Women beneficiaries was presented by Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri. Thaawar Chand Gehlot, Minister for Tribal Affairs, Shri. Jual Oram & Minister of State (I/C) for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Shri. Dharmendra Pradhan at a ceremony held at Constitution Club of India, New Delhi today.


    This initiative undertaken by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas is part of a slew of initiatives to take forward the vision of our Hon’ble Prime Minister of India Shri. Narendra Modi of creating an inclusive India of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar's dream. This initiative aims at making a positive difference in the lives of the poor, marginalized and lesser privileged sections of the society as envisioned by Dr B.R. Ambedkar.


    The amendment to the scheme of divestment approved by Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, last year, envisages allotment of temporary COCOs to pending SC, ST Letters of Intent Holders (LoI) and Widows and unmarried women, who are above 40 years of age without earning parents.


    The amended scheme also provides support to SC, ST dealers, who have lost their Retail Outlets due to acquisition of land by Government or Government bodies and those SC, ST LoI holders, who have been handed over Retail Outlets but couldn’t retain possession due to court case or litigation. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has extended this divestment scheme to these beneficiaries.


    Speaking at the event, Shri Pradhan said that as part of the initiative to extend divestment scheme to SC, ST and Women beneficiaries, the Oil Marketing Companies under the guidance of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas have offered 525 temporary COCOs to SC, ST LoI holders/eligible dealers. So far, 195 SC, ST LoI holders/eligible dealers have opted for issuance of LoI for the allotment of temporary COCO outlets. Of the 195, 114 have been allotted to women (53 SC, 15 ST, 46 Widows and unmarried women over 40 years of age). As part of the divestment scheme, the beneficiaries will be handed over ready-made Retail Outlets (with all basic facilities) by respective Oil Marketing Company (OMC) and also the working capital for operating these outlets.


    Shri Pradhan also said that the Ministry is committed to increase the percentage of SC/ STs in Retail Outlet Dealerships. As, land is the most important factor in setting up the Retail outlets for SC/ STs, the Minister has written letters to Chief Ministers of all the States and UTs to help the OMCs get the land available for setting up the ROs for SCs and STs.


    *****


    RG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496263) Visitor Counter : 167