      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Sports Minister Vijay Goel interacts with Indian Football Team for FIFA U-17 World Cup
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2017 6:26PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel here today visited Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium to meet the practicing Indian Football Team for FIFA U-17 World Cup to be held in India in October this year.
    
    The Minister interacted with each probable of the team, their coach and other support staff to have the firsthand knowledge about their preparations and facilities provided to them. Later talking to media the Minister said the team has been given a lot of exposure during its trips to different countries such as Spain, Portugal, Germany, Russia, Dubai and Brazil etc. He said that team has also played a lot of international friendly matches with clubs and countries in the run up to the world cup. Shri Goel said currently the team is preparing for a 4 Nation Tournament in Mexico in August, 2017 where India, Mexico, Columbia and Chile will participate. He said this will be a good opportunity for the Indian team to hone their skills further before the World Cup.
    
    Shri Vijay Goel expressed the hope that with their enthusiasm and rigorous training, the team members will bring glory to the country. He said that the Indian eleven will prove the dark horse in the Championship. Wishing best of luck to the team members, the Minister said entire country is looking forward for their best foot forward and success. He said, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has time and again emphasized on promotion of Sports culture in the country. Shri Goel said under the dynamic leadership of Shri Narendra Modi the government has initiated Mission XI Million to connect schools across the country with football. The promotion of Sports and upcoming World Cup will inspire students and youth in the country to play football in a big way.

    ****


    
    
    AD/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497113) Visitor Counter : 40