      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Non-Communicable Diseases
      Posted On: 28 JUL 2017 7:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Health Policy (NHP), 2017 has recognized the growing burden on account of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and advocated the need to halt and reverse the growing incidence of chronic diseases. This policy denotes important change from very selective to comprehensive primary health care package which includes geriatric health care, palliative care and rehabilitative care services.

    
    As per the report by the World Economic forum and the Harvard School of Public Health published in November, 2014, India stands to lose $4.58 trillion before 2030 due to Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and mental health conditions.
    
    Public health is a State subject, however, under National Health Mission, financialand technical support is provided to States/UTs to strengthen their healthcare systems including setting up of / upgradation of public health facilities, based on the requirements posed by the States/UTs in their Programme Implementation Plans (PIPs).
    
    Government of India is implementing National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases and Stroke (NPCDCS) for interventions up to District level under the National Health Mission. Under NPCDCS, diagnosis and treatment facilities are provided through different levels of healthcare by setting up NCD Clinics in District Hospitals and Community Health Centres (CHCs).
    
    For early diagnosis, a programme is initiated for “Population-based Screening of common NCDs viz. Diabetes, Hypertension and Common cancers (Oral, Breast, Cervical)” utilizing the services of the Frontline-workers and Health-workers under existing Primary Healthcare System. This process will also generate awareness of risk factors of common NCDs.
    
    Under strengthening of Tertiary Care for Cancer Centre (TCCC) Scheme, Government of India is assisting States to set up / establish State Cancer Institute (SCI) and Tertiary Care Cancer Centres(TCCCs) in different parts of the country.
    
    Government of India has also supported implementation of the District Mental Health Programme (DMHP) in 339 districts of the country for detection, management and treatment of mental disorders/ illness at District Hospital level and in rural areas through outreach activities by the DMHP teams. Besides, the Central Government is also providing support for recruitment of staff at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) and Community Health Centre (CHC) levels for providing basic mental health services. In addition, support is also provided for the training of the staff of District Hospital, CHC and PHC for providing basic mental health services by integration with the general health services.
    
    The Central Government, through its hospitals augments the efforts of the State Governments for providing health servicesin the country. Under Pradhan Mantri Swathya Suraksha Yojana(PMSSY), 6 new AIIMS have been set up and upgradation of identified medical colleges has been undertaken which will also improve health care facilities.
    
    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Smt Anupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.

    *****


    
    
    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497684) Visitor Counter : 296
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil