      Vice President's Secretariat

      Science & Technology has been a passion with us since ancient times: Vice President
      
      Inaugurates ‘Exhibition on Science & Technology Innovations’

      Posted On: 28 JUL 2017 7:23PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Hamid Ansari has said that the Science & Technology has been a passion with us since ancient times. He was addressing the gathering at an event to inaugurate the ‘Exhibition on Science & Technology Innovations’ organized by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science & Technology, Environment & Forests and Rajya Sabha, here today. The Speaker of Lok Sabha, Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, the Union Minister for Science & Technology, Earth Sciences and Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan, the Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh, the Minister of State for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, Shri Y.S. Chowdary and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.

    
    The Vice President said that India has a great set of R&D, but the honest truth is that the governmental effort in R&D is inadequate. He further said that after 70 years of independence, we still import 60% of our defence requirements. We are totally dependent on what our suppliers would do in certain situations, he added.
    
    The Vice President said that the Constitution encourages the development of scientific temper, but a very little effort is made in that direction. He further said that the science consciousness has to be developed with diligence and involvement of time. We are very good in benefitting science as a product, but we are equally diligent in the process of science, he added.
    
    The Vice President said that in certain fields we have done excellent work. He further said that departments like Atomic Energy and Space are performing well. He questioned why we are far behind in other fields. If we can find answers to these questions, we will know which direction to go, he added.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497686) Visitor Counter : 243