      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Shri Shiv Khera delivers the 21st lecture of the CVC ‘Lecture Series’
      
      
      Topic of the lecture: “Winners don’t do different things, they do things differently”

      Posted On: 31 JUL 2017 7:51PM by PIB Delhi

    The 21st lecture of the “Lecture Series” organized by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) was delivered by the eminent motivational speaker and author Shri Shiv Khera, on the topic “Winners don’t do different things, they do things differently” here today.

    
    Delivering the lecture, Shri Shiv Khera said that a person with positive attitude cannot be stopped and a person with negative attitude cannot be helped. He said that at the same time we should be ready to fight evil and that is the rule of nature. He said that ‘only constant is change’ and the successful people are always ready to adapt to change.
    
    Shri Khera highlighted three skills of the successful people: People’s skills, persuasion skills and prioritization skills. Throwing light upon the basic human skills, he said that courtesy, integrity and honesty are very important in life and these habits should be inculcated in the individuals from the childhood itself. He said that these habits are essential for nation building also, without them the nation will suffer in the long run. So good habits should be practiced, he added. He said to be cautious while nurturing a child and be careful in motivating them as any behavior that gets rewarded, gets repeated. So the children should be encouraged to repeat and inculcate good behavior, Shri Khera said.
    
    Emphasising on the importance of persuasion skills, he said that this is the ability to influence others and is very important in all walks of life. Throwing light on the prioritization, he said that decisions should be made based upon priorities. He said that some issues are important in our lives, whereas some issues are urgent. He said if we do not attend to important tissues, they will become urgent. So all issues like health, relationships etc. should be given due priority before they turn into urgent issues. Shri Khera said that direction in life is more important than speed, so steps should be in right direction to succeed, he added.
    
    Speaking about the topic “Winners don’t do different things, they do things differently”, he said that winners develop the habit of doing things, which losers don’t like to do. He said winners are determined to do these things even if they would not have liked to do them otherwise.
    
    The Central Vigilance Commissioner Shri KV Chowdary, Vigilance Commissioners Dr. T M Basin and Shri Rajiv were also present on the occasion. The Lecture was attended by the Chief Vigilance Officers (CVOs) based in Delhi/NCR as well as CMDs, Board of Directors and other officers of the vigilance administration.

    ****


    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497887) Visitor Counter : 68