      Ministry of Railways

      Smart Stations
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2017 7:11PM by PIB Delhi


    A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been entered into between Ministry of Railways (MoR) and Ministry of Urban Development (MoUD) for integrated planning of railway stations in the cities included in the ‘SMART Cities’ and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. This would lead to an integrated public transit hub around the railway stations and encourage Transit Oriented Development.
    
    An MoU between Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) and National Buildings Construction Corporation Limited (NBCC) has been signed on 30.06.2017. In the first phase, Ten stations viz. Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh), Delhi Sarai Rohilla (Delhi), Nellore (Andhra Pradesh), Madgaon (Goa), Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh), Gomtinagar (Uttar Pradesh), Kota (Rajasthan), Thane New (Maharashtra), Ernakulam Junction (Kerala) and Puducherry (U.T.) have been identified for redevelopment as a part of ‘SMART Cities’ scheme. Ambala Cantt Railway Station is not identified for redevelopment in the first phase. A study has been conducted by French Railway (SNCF) for Ambala station redevelopment and the final reports have been submitted by them. The findings of the report have been incorporated while preparing the bid documents for Ambala station redevelopment, for the 2nd phase.
    
    As station redevelopment projects are complex in nature and require detailed techno-economic feasibility studies, no time frame can be set for their completion.
    
    The cost of station redevelopment is to be met by leveraging commercial development of vacant land/air space in and around the station. Therefore, railway funds are not required for station redevelopment projects. Such projects shall generally be cost neutral to Railways.
    
    This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha on 26.07.2017 (Wednesday).

    ****


    
    
    AKS/MKV/ENS/PM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497327) Visitor Counter : 130