      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Achievements made under Hamari Dharohar Scheme
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2017 7:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Minority Affairs formulated “Hamari Dharohar” scheme for preservation of rich heritage and culture of minority communities of India in 2014-15. The scheme aims to support curation of iconic exhibitions, calligraphy, research and development, etc. Under this scheme, the funding is project based and not the State/District-wise. The following two important projects have been undertaken so far under the scheme:
    
    1. An iconic exhibition of Parsis (Zoroastrians) i.e. “The Everlasting Flame” to showcase the civilization and culture of the Parsis (Zoroastrians) was organized during March-May, 2016. This involved curating 3 travelling exhibitions on Parsi Culture namely- ‘The Everlasting Flame’; ‘Threads of Continuity’; and ‘Painted Encounters’, Parsi Traders and Community & No Parsi is an island’, at the National Museum (NM), National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) and Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA) at New Delhi. A total of Rs. 18.72 Crore was spent.
    
    2. A project has been allocated to Dairatul Maarifil Osmania (an institution established in 1888 AD) under Osmania University, Telangana, for translation of 240 invaluable documents belonging to Medievel period on the subjects of Medicines, Mathematics, Literature, etc. from Arabic language to English, digitization and re-printing. The project implementation has already started and the state Government of Telangana is monitoring the same. A total of Rs. 2.77 Crore has so far been released for this project.
    
    The details of the funds allocated and utilized under this scheme are available on the website of the Ministry at www.minorityaffairs.gov.in.
    
    This information was given by Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, the Minister of State (IC) for Minority Affairs, in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha, today.
    
    AK


    *****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1497132) Visitor Counter : 358