      Ministry of Education

      Recruitment of Teachers
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2017 3:54PM by PIB Delhi


    The University Grants Commission (UGC) has notified the Regulations on Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers and Other Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Measure for the Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education, 2010. These principal regulations along with their subsequent four amendments notified up to 2016 lay down principles and guidelines for recruitment and promotion of faculties at the cadre of Assistant Professor, Associate Professor and Professor.


    In these Regulations, Master’s degree with UGC specified score along with NET/SET/SLET or Ph.D. earned in conformity with UGC Regulations has been made mandatory eligibility condition for appointment to various academic positions. However, para 4.1.0 of UGC Regulations, 2010 prescribes an alternative criterion for the post of Professor. As per this criterion, an outstanding professional with established reputations in the relevant field who has made significant contributions to the knowledge in the concerned/allied/relevant discipline could be recruited as a Professor.


    The Universities are autonomous bodies created either under the Central Act or State Acts and the onus of filling up the vacant posts lies with them. However, to make the teaching profession more attractive and to draw in good talent at the entry level, the UGC Regulations, 2010 has prescribed norms for improvement in service conditions for the new entrant, in terms of better working and leave conditions, career advancement prospects, retirement benefits etc.


    Further, the UGC has, inter alia , undertaken the following initiatives for improving the teachers and Teacher education so as to make the profession more attractive:


    § The UGC supports ‘operation faculty recharge’ through strengthening high quality research in science related disciplines and promoting innovative teaching in the universities through induction of fresh talent at the level of Professors, Associate Professors, and Assistant Professors. Many universities require the support of professionals and experts beyond those available to the university in its regular faculty especially in strengthening high quality research in science-related disciplines, at internationally competitive level and in promoting innovating teaching in universities. Besides, it has provided positions of Adjunct Faculty and Scholars-in-Residence to enrich the teaching and research programmes of the university system at M.Phil and Ph.D levels.


    § UGC implements a Travel Grant Scheme that provides financial assistance to permanent teachers and librarians of colleges and vice-chancellors of state universities, deemed to be universities and central universities, recognized under section 2 (f) and 12 (B) of the UGC Act, to present research papers at international conferences abroad.


    § UGC provides financial assistance to teachers teaching in universities and colleges to promote excellence in teaching and research. Research project may be undertaken by an individual teacher or a group of teachers. The ceiling of assistance under the scheme is Rs.20 lakhs for sciences including Engineering & Technology, Medical, Pharmacy and Agriculture etc. while for humanities, Social Science, Languages, Literature, Arts, Law and allied disciplines, the assistance is Rs.15.00 lakhs.


    § In order to encourage research and development in the country, UGC has laid out a number of schemes, awards, fellowships, chairs and programmes under which financial assistance is provided to institutions of higher education as well as faculty members working therein to undertake quality research in almost all areas of knowledge across disciplines including revival & promotion of indigenous languages.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    GG/AK/RK/ Recruitment of Teachers

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497805) Visitor Counter : 185