      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Mechanism to Monitor Private Medical Colleges
      Posted On: 28 JUL 2017 7:14PM by PIB Delhi


    

    With the enactment of IMC Amendment Act, 2016 to introduce NEET, MCI with prior approval of the Central Government has amended Graduate Medical Education Regulations, 1997, and Post-Graduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000, for making provisions of common counseling. All the admissions in medical courses will be through NEET and common counselling. Admission details are sent to the MCI after counseling.

    
    In the case of Government medical colleges, the respective State Governments are responsible for fixation of fee and in the case of private unaided medical colleges, the fee structure is decided by the Committee set up by the respective State Government under the Chairmanship of a retired High Court Judge in pursuance of the directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. It is for the Committee to decide whether the fee proposed by an Institute is justified and the fee fixed by the Committee is binding on the Institute.
    
    Further, the Hon’ble Supreme Court in its order dated 09.05.2017 had directed that the students who secure admission in MBBS course pursuant to the common counseling shall deposit with the counseling committee the demand draft towards the fee payable to the Institutions / colleges / Universities. Admission details are sent to MCI after counseling. MCI scrutinizes the details and issues discharge notices if students are admitted in the Medical Colleges in violation of regulations. With a view to make students aware, MCI has hosted details regarding grant of permission for courses run by Medical Colleges in its website. Advisories to the students are also posted on MCI website.
    
    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Faggan Singh Kulaste stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.

    *****


    
    
    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497683) Visitor Counter : 66
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil