      Ministry of Education

      Scheme for Poor Students
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2017 3:56PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Government is sensitive to the needs of students belonging to the economically weaker sections of the society and is committed towards ensuring equity in access to higher education.
    
    Under the Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship scheme for College and University Students, financial assistance is provided to meritorious students having family income of less than Rs. 6 lakh per annum to meet a part of their day-to-day expenses while pursuing higher studies. Students who are above 80th percentile of successful candidates in the relevant streams from a particular Board of Examination in class XII of 10+2 pattern or equivalent and pursuing regular course and not availing of any other scholarship, are eligible for consideration under this scheme.
    
    Further, under the Central Sector Scheme of Interest Subsidy on Education Loan interest subsidy is provided to all students belonging to Economically Weaker Section (EWS), with an annual parental income up to Rs.4.5 lakhs. The Scheme provides for full interest subsidy during the period of moratorium (i.e. duration of recognised professional course plus 1 year) on educational loans availed of by all students belonging to EWS from Scheduled Banks, including Co-operative & Regional Rural banks, as per the Model Educational Loan Scheme of Indian Banks' Association.
    
    Also, the National Mission on Education through Information and Communication Technology (ICT) has been launched with the objective of making best use of ICT with the purpose of identification and nurturing of talent and life-long learning as well as extending the education facility to a larger section of people.
    
    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.

    *****


    
    
    GG/AK/RK/ Scheme for Poor Students

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497808) Visitor Counter : 193
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil