      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Branding strategy for Export Oriented Indian Products
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2017 4:41PM by PIB Delhi


    India’s Foreign Trade Policy Statement released in 2015emphasises the need of a branding strategy. The India Brand Equity Foundation (IBEF) established by the Department of Commerce works closely with stakeholders across government and industry to promote and create international awareness of the Indian products and services in overseas markets. IBEF has undertaken focused branding activities for sectors namely engineering, pharma, plantations (tea, coffee and spices), services, textiles and leather. This is done through a 360o branding approach including onsite branding, advertising in media, digital marketing including social media, PR, knowledge kits and revamping the websites of many export promotion councils. IBEF actively works with Indian missions abroad for its branding activities in overseas events and also supports them with knowledge works and branding collaterals.


    Department of Commerce encourages participation of exporters, export promotion councils, trade associations etc. in International Trade Fairs, Expos etc. India Trade Promotion Organization (ITPO) is the trade promotion agency of the Department of Commerce. ITPO has finalized participation in 31 overseas exhibitions for 2017-18. Based on the proposals submitted by the Export Promotion Councils/Trade Promotion Organizations, an annual plan for organizing participation of exporters in various international fairs and expos is drawn and supported under the Market Access Initiative (MAI) scheme by Department of Commerce.255 proposals for export promotion activities/events in India and abroad for 2017-18 have been approved for assistance under MAI scheme. No targets of earning from such events are fixed.


    This information was given by the Commerce and Industry Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman in a written reply in Lok Sabha today


    ********


    MJPS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1497830) Visitor Counter : 128