      AYUSH

      There has been increase in number of practitioners of AYUSH system of Medicine over the last three years: Shri Shripad Naik
      Posted On: 28 JUL 2017 5:55PM by PIB Delhi


    As per information available from State Boards/Councils, the number of AYUSH Practitioners has increased from 7,36,538 in 2014 to 7,44,563 in 2015 and to 7,71,468 in 2016.


    The Government of India has taken various initiatives to popularise AYUSH:-


    1. The National Policy on Indian Systems of Medicine & Homoeopathy - 2002, envisages integration of AYUSH with the Healthcare Delivery System. Mainstreaming of AYUSH is one of the strategies in National Health Mission (NHM) as well which seeks to provide accessible, affordable and quality health care in order to improve the existing health care delivery system.


    2. Government of India has adopted a strategy of Co-location of AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Community Health Centres (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs), thus enabling choice to the patients for different systems of medicines under single window. The engagement of AYUSH Doctors / paramedics and their training is supported by the Department of Health & Family Welfare, while the support for AYUSH infrastructure, equipment / furniture and medicines are provided by Ministry of AYUSH under National AYUSH Mission (NAM).


    3. To popularise AYUSH system of medicine in urban and rural areas, Government of India has approved the National AYUSH Mission (NAM) on 15.09.2014 as Centrally Sponsored Scheme comprising the components of AYUSH Services, AYUSH Educational Institutions, Quality Control of ASU & H Drugs and Medicinal Plants to implement through State/UT Governments.


    Under NAM, State / UT Governments may avail financial assistance through submission of State Annual Action Plans (SAAPs).


    4. Under the Information Education and Communication Scheme(IEC), the Ministry takes up initiatives for propagation and promotion of AYUSH systems of medicine including Ayurveda by organizing Arogya fairs/Melas, Conferences, Exhibitions, Seminar, Workshops, Symposium and also undertaking publicity through electronic multimedia, print media campaigning for awareness amongst the citizens all over the country.


    5. (i) Establishment of Post Graduate Institutes of Yoga and Naturopathy Education and Research (PGIYNER).


    (ii) Establishment of OPD of Yoga & Naturopathy.


    (iii) Activities through participation in Health melas/exhibition.


    (iv) Celebration of International Day of Yoga by organising One month Yoga Training Programme in all districts of India.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri ShripadYesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/UD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1497659) Visitor Counter : 123