      Ministry of Tourism

      Providing of Facilities for Tourists at Temples, Monuments and Tourist Spots
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2017 5:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Tourism has undertaken various measures/initiatives to provide facilitation and make tourist places accessible to the differently abled and to provide safety and security to tourists as per following details:
    
    I. 24x7 Toll Free Multi-Lingual Tourist Info-Helpline in 12 Languages to provide support service in terms of information and guidance to tourists.
    
    II. All the infrastructure developed under the Schemes of Swadesh Darshan and National Mission on Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) are designed barrier free to provide easy accessibility to differently abled tourists. All State Governments/Union Territory Administrations are required to submit an undertaking along with the proposal before sanctioning of project certifying that barrier free environment for differently abled tourists has been incorporated in the design of the built-up areas of the project.
    
    III. Ministry of Tourism, under its voluntary scheme guidelines for classification/re-classification of operational hotels, has made it mandatory for hotels to earmark at least one room with suitable furniture and customized washroom facilities, ramp with anti-slip floors, wheel chair to be available on a complimentary basis in hotels of all categories, designated parking places etc. for the differently abled.
    
    IV. Transport Operators Association has been advised to provide adequate facility in the tourist cars/buses for differently-abled tourists.
    
    V. Handing over Welcome Cards to foreign tourists on arrival to provide useful tips.
    
    VI. Some State Governments/Union Territory Administrations have deployed Tourist Police, in one form or the other.
    
    VII. Launching of Code of Conduct for adoption by the Indian Travel and Tourism Industry for Safe and Honourable Tourism with the objective to encourage undertaking of tourism activities with respect to basic rights like dignity, safety and freedom from exploitation of both tourists and local residents, in particular women and children.
    
    VIII. Advisories are issued from time to time to various State Governments and UT Administrations to ensure safety and security of the tourist.
    
    Providing facilities at Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai, Ganesh Tekdi in Nagpur falls under jurisdiction of the State Government. Various tourist amenities are provided by Archeological Survey of India and State Archeology at the forts falling under their jurisdiction. In respect of Maharashtra, Ministry of Tourism has sanctioned an amount of Rs.82.17 Crore for the development of Sindhudurg Coastal Circuit under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme during the year 2015-16.
    
    This information was given by Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State for Tourism and Culture (Independent Charge) in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.

    ****


    
    
    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Parl. No. 3/26-07-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497260) Visitor Counter : 101