      Ministry of External Affairs

      Indian Cultural Centres Abroad
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2017 4:51PM by PIB Delhi


    ICCR has 36 Indian Cultural Centres and one Sub-Centre (list attached). ICCR has plans to establish new Indian Cultural Centres in Washington and Paris. For these new Centres, the properties are being renovated for establishing Centres.


    Cultural Centres overseas are ICCR’s important arms, which play significant role in promotion of India’s soft power strength through its variety of activities like facilitating teaching of Indian dance, music, yoga, Hindi etc., organizing cultural performances, film screening, lectures, talks, Seminars & Conferences on themes related to India including workshops/interactions on various streams of Indian dance and music and organizing Festivals of India. Activities are organized in the capital and other cities with the help of involvement of local community and Indian Diaspora.


    During the recent visit of Prime Minister of India to Israel, announcement for the opening of Indian Cultural Centre in Israel was made. Modalities for opening and running of the Centre will be worked out by ICCR in consultation with the Mission in Tel Aviv. In 2017-18 ICCR organized a Festival of India in Israel. Celebrations of IDY were organized on grand scale. ICCR has Chair of Indian Studies at the Tel Aviv University for promotion of Indian studies. India and Israel share a long standing relationship on the cultural and people to people front. Opening a Cultural Centre will further enhance relationship on this front.


    LIST OF INDIAN CULTURAL CENTRES ABROAD

                                                         
S.No.  Name of Centre with Country                       
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
1.     The Nehru Centre                                  
                                                         
                                                         
       London (U.K.).                                    
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
2.     The Tagore Centre                                 
                                                         
                                                         
       Berlin, Germany.                                  
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
3.     Jawaharlal Nehru Cultural Centre                  
                                                         
                                                         
       Moscow, Russia.                                   
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
4.     Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Astana, Kazakhstan.                               
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
5.     Lal Bahadur Shastri Centre for Indian Culture     
                                                         
                                                         
       Tashkent, Uzbekistan.                             
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
6.     Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Dushanbe, Tajikistan.                             
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
7.     Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Kabul, Afghanistan.                               
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
8.     Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Colombo, Sri Lanka.                               
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
9.     Jawaharlal Nehru Indian                           
                                                         
                                                         
       Cultural Centre,                                  
                                                         
                                                         
       Jakarta, Indonesia.                               
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
10.    Indira Gandhi Centre for Indian Culture           
                                                         
                                                         
       Port Louis, Mauritius                             
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
11.    Maulana Azad Centre for Indian Culture,           
                                                         
                                                         
       Cairo, Egypt.                                     
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
12.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Johannesburg, South Africa.                       
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
13.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Georgetown, Guyana.                               
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
14.    Mahatma Gandhi Institute For Cultural Cooperation,
                                                         
                                                         
       Port of Spain, Trinidad & Tobago.                 
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
15.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Paramaribo, Suriname.                             
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
16.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Suva, Fiji.                                       
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
17.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Beijing, China.                                   
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
18.    Indian Cultural Wing                              
                                                         
                                                         
       Kathmandu, Nepal.                                 
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
19.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Bangkok, Thailand                                 
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
20.    NSCB Indian Cultural Centre                       
                                                         
                                                         
       Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.                           
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
21.    Vivekanand Cultural Centre                        
                                                         
                                                         
       Tokyo, Japan                                      
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
22.    Gurudev Tagore Indian Cultural Centre             
                                                         
                                                         
       Mexico.                                           
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
23.    Nehru Wangchuck Cultural Centre                   
                                                         
                                                         
       Thimphu, Bhutan.                                  
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
24.    Indira Gandhi Cultural Centre                     
                                                         
                                                         
       Dhaka, Bangladesh.                                
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
25.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Yangon, Myanmar.                                  
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
26.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania                           
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
27.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Seoul, South Korea.                               
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
28.    Amrita Sher-Gill Cultural Centre                  
                                                         
                                                         
       Budapest, Hungary.                                
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
29.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Prague, Czech Republic                            
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
30.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Male, Maldives.                                   
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
31.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Sao Paulo, Brazil.                                
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
32.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       The Hague, Netherlands.                           
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
33.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Tehran, Iran                                      
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
34.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Durban, South Africa                              
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
35.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Sydney, Australia                                 
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
36.    Indian Cultural Centre                            
                                                         
                                                         
       Hanoi, Vietnam                                    
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
       Sub-Centre                                        
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
37.    Sub-Cultural Centre                               
                                                         
                                                         
       Bali, Indonesia                                   
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         

    This information was given by Shri Gen. (Dr.) V.K. Singh (Retd), the Minister of State for External Affairs, in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha, today.


    YSK


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497229) Visitor Counter : 103