      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Forecast for Rapid Rise in Water Levels of Rivers in Jharkhand, East Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, East Rajasthan, Gujarat and North Madhya Maharashtra
      Posted On: 28 JUL 2017 12:17PM by PIB Delhi


    Rainfall Forecast issued by India Meteorological Department for the next two days indicate that heavy to very heavy with extremely heavy falls very likely in East Madhya Pradesh, North Chhattisgarh, East Rajasthan and heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places in West Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, north Madhya Maharashtra, Gujarat on July 28 and 29, 2017. The rainfall is likely to decrease from July 30, 2017. Due to this, rivers in Sone basin, Southern Ganga tributaries between Allahabad and Ballia, Ken Betwa Basin, Chambal basin, Mahi, Sabarmati & Narmada Basins are likely to rise rapidly.


    The likely impact of these rains as inferred from rainfall runoff model run for two days will be rapid rise in the river water levels in the following basins as under:- Sone Basin and Southern Ganga tributaries: River Sone and its tributaries such as Rihand, Kanhar, Koel are likely to rise in Palmau district of Jharkhand, Sarguja district in Chhattisgarh, Sonebhadra, Mirzapur districts of Uttar Pradesh, Shahdol, Siddhi and Satna districts of Madhya Pradesh. The inflows into Bansagar and Rihand Dams are likely to rise rapidly. However, since sufficient storage is available, no releases may be required from these reservoirs presently in view of less rainfall predications from July 29, 2017.


    Ken and Betwa: River Ken and Betwa are expected to rise in Panna district of Madhya Pradesh, Banda and Hamirpu district of Uttar Pradesh. Inflows into Matatilla and Rajghat Dams are likely to increase. Close monitoring of the situation will be required for regulated release from the dams if required.


    Chambal Basin: Chambal and its tributaries are likely to observe rise in water level in districts of Indore, Ujjain, Ratlam, Mandsaur and Neemuch in Madhya Pradesh, Kota and Jhalawar districts in Rajasthan. Since the dams in Chambal basins have sufficient storage, there may not be immediate necessity for release of water. However, situation has to be monitored closely in view of continuous warnings of heavy to very heavy rainfall in East Rajasthan during the next two days. The rainfall in Jhalawar, Pali, Chittorgarh districts of Rajasthan may also see increase in water levels of many of the tributaries of Chambal.


    Narmada and Tapi Basins: These basins likely to receive isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall today and tomorrow especially in the lower Narmada, lower Tapi and Damanganga basins. River levels likely to increase in the Districts of Vadodara, Surat, Bharuch, Surat, Valsad and Navasari in Gujarat. Rainfall in Tapi basin likely to increase river level in the Nandurbar, Dhule and Jalgaon districts of Maharashtra. Since sufficient storage is available in Ukai dam there is no immediate requirement of release. However the situation needs close monitoring. Since the reservoirs like Kadana, Dharoi, Dantiwada etc. are near Full Reservoir Level (FRL), strict vigilance is required to release water in regulated manner based on inflow forecast.


    Mahi, Sabarmati and Banas Basin: The catchments of Mahi and Sabarmati are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall in next two days. The river water levels are likely to increase in the Districts of Jhabua, Dhar and Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh, Sirohi, Pali, Udaipur and Dungarpur districts of Rajasthan, Sabarkanta, Mehsana, Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Banswara, Panchmahal, Mahisagar and Kheda districts of Gujarat.


    Samir/JD/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497542) Visitor Counter : 89