      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Jal Manthan-IV to be held on July 28 and 29, 2017
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2017 4:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Towards its commitment for wider consultations among various stakeholders and to brain-storm new ideas for solutions to various issues of water sector the Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation will be organising a two-day national seminar titled “Jal Manthan – IV” on July 28 and 29, 2017 at New Delhi. Union Ministers of related Ministries/Departments, Chief Ministers of some States/Union Territories, Irrigation/Water Resources Ministers of States/Union Territories, eminent experts in water sector, representatives of NGOs and senior officers of the Central and State Governments are expected to attend the seminar.


    Union Minister of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Sushri Uma Bharati will inaugurate the event.


    On the first day, consultations and discussions will be on Pradhan Mantri Krishi Seenchai Yojana (PMKSY) and its implementation and the Review of progress made by States under Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Programme (AIBP) and Command Area Development (CAD) etc. The speakers will include Shri Brijmohan Agrawal, Minister for Water Resources, Government of Chhattisgarh, Shri Girish Dattatray Mahajan, Minister for Water Resources, Government of Maharashtra, Shri T. Harish Rao, Minister for Irrigation, Government of Telangana, Dr. Amarjit Singh, Secretary, MoWR,RD&GR, Shri A B Pandya, Former Chairman, CWC and Shri Narendra Kumar, Chairman, CWC.


    The discussions on the second day would focus on Inter-linking of Rivers and its implementation followed by Chintan Baithak to be chaired by Sushri Bharti. Shri A. D. Mohile, Former Chairman, CWC and Shri S. Masood Husain, Member (WP&P), CWC will be the main speakers on the second day.


    It may be recalled that the Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Sushri Uma Bharati has emphasized the need to hold wider consultations amongst various stakeholders engaged in water resource development and management to achieve synergy of water resource development with environment, wild-life and various social and cultural practices. Jal Manthan programmes are being held to achieve this purpose.


    The three earlier Jal Manthan Programmes held in November, 2014, February, 2016 and January, 2017 were hugely successful.


    Samir/JD/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497079) Visitor Counter : 140