      AYUSH

      Two new Institutes of Ayurveda established by the Government: AYUSH Minister
      Posted On: 28 JUL 2017 5:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Government has established National Institute of Ayurveda at Jaipur which offers undergraduate and postgraduate and fellowship programme. Further, the Government has also established two new institutes namely (i) All India Institute of Ayurveda, New Delhi for Post-graduate education and (ii) North Eastern Institute of Ayurveda & Homoeopathy, Shillong for Under-graduate education in Ayurveda & Homoeopathy.


    The criteria/procedures/guidelines to set up new Ayurved, Siddha and Unani medical college are prescribed under section 13A of Indian Medicine Central Council (IMCC) Act, 1970, for Homoeopathy college the details are at section 12A of Homoeopathy Central Council (HCC) Act, 1973.


    The Government has set-up five Central Councils for Research in Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani, Yoga & Naturopathy and Homoeopathy for undertaking coordinating formulating, developing and promoting research on scientific lines. The activities are carried out through peripheral institute/Centres/Units located all over India and also through collaborative studies with various universities, hospitals and institutes. The research activities of the council include medicinal plant research (Medico-ethno botanical survey, pharmacognosy and tissue culture), Drug Standardization Pharmacological Research, Clinical Research, Literary Research & Documentation, and other outreach activities. Further, Ministry of AYUSH runs Extra Mural Research (EMR) scheme to conduct the research on various aspects of AYUSH systems.


    The Government of India has approved and notified National AYUSH Mission (NAM) on 29 th September 2014 which envisages better access to AYUSH services; strengthening of AYUSH educational institutions, facilitate the enforcement of quality control of ASU&H drugs and sustainable availability of ASU&H raw materials in the States/UTs during 12 th Plan.


    The Ministry of AYUSH provides propagation and promotion of AYUSH systems in the country by creating awareness amongst the citizens about the efficacy of the AYUSH system and dissemination of proven results of research and Development work conducted in AYUSH systems through various media and other publicity activities including organizing Arogya Fairs, participation in AYUSH related Fairs, organizing Workshops, Seminars on AYUSH system of medicine.


    NUMBER OF AYURVEDA, SIDDHA UNANI , HOMOEOPATHY AND NATUROPATHY COLLEGES IN THE COUNTRY

                                                        
Ayurveda  Siddha  Unani  Homoeopathy  Naturopathy  Total
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
341       10      52     204          19           626  
                                                        
                                                        

    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri ShripadYesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497661) Visitor Counter : 101