      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Funds Allocation for Science Research
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2017 6:30PM by PIB Delhi

      
      Government has taken several steps to promote science and scientific research in the country. Many new and innovative schemes have been initiated recently to catalyze research in areas like healthcare, information and communication, sustainable habitat, nanoscience and technology, water resources and river systems etc. Emphasis has been given to interdisciplinary areas of priority such as energy, water, health, security, nutrition, advanced materials and manufacturing, cyber physical systems etc. to meaningfully connect the research and development (R&D) undertaken in our academic and national laboratories to the sustainable development goals (SDG) of the Government. Some other measures taken by the Government to promote science and scientific research include successive increase in plan allocations for Scientific Departments, offering attractive research fellowships, strengthening infrastructure for R&D etc.
      
      The fund allocated to the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) / Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for agriculture research and education during XI and XII Plan were Rs 10325.76 crore and Rs 13786.58 crore respectively. The Government, with the aim of developing and promoting scientific technology to increase agricultural production of the country, has established “National Agricultural Research System (NARS)” in various states including Uttar Pradesh. The names of State/UT where the ICAR Research Institutes/ All India Coordinated/Network Research Projects have been set up including Uttar Pradesh, are given below:
      
      1. Andaman & Nicobar
      
      2. Andhra Pradesh
      
      3. Arunachal Pradesh
      
      4. Assam
      
      5. Bihar
      
      6. Chhattisgarh
      
      7. Delhi
      
      8. Goa
      
      9. Gujarat
      
      10. Haryana
      
      11. Himachal Pradesh
      
      12. Jammu & Kashmir
      
      13. Jharkhand
      
      14. Karnataka
      
      15. Kerala
      
      16. Madhya Pradesh
      
      17. Maharashtra
      
      18. Meghalaya
      
      19. Nagaland
      
      20. Odisha
      
      21. Punjab
      
      22. Rajasthan
      
      23. Sikkim
      
      24. Tamilnadu
      
      25. Telangana
      
      26. Uttar Pradesh
      
      27. Uttarakhand
      
      28. West Bengal
      
      This information was given by Minister of State for Ministry of Science & Technology and Ministry of Earth Sciences Shri Y.S.Chowdary in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.

      ***

      
      
      RDS/nb
    
    
    (Release ID: 1497291) Visitor Counter : 92