      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Funds Disbursed to Industrial Corridors
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2017 4:11PM by PIB Delhi


    (a): Status of Industrial Corridors


    (i) Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC):


    Construction of trunk infrastructure at four nodes/ industrial regions namely, Dholera Special Investment Region (Gujarat), Shendra Bidkin Industrial Area (Maharashtra), Integrated Industrial Township ‘Vikram Udyogpuri’ near Ujjain (Madhya Pradesh) and Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida (Uttar Pradesh) is under progress and probable timelines for completion are September, 2019, March, 2019, June, 2019 and June, 2019 respectively.


    (ii) Chennai Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (CBIC):


    Perspective plan for the overall corridor has been completed and three nodes have been identified for development namely, Krishnapatnam in Andhra Pradesh; Tumakuru in Karnataka; and Ponneri in Tamil Nadu.


    (iii) Bengaluru Mumbai Industrial Corridor (BMIC):


    The Perspective Plan has been completed for BMIC Region and approved by the respective State Governments. Dharwad node in Karnataka has been identified as the priority node for further implementation. State Government of Maharashtra has given in principle approval for the development of Sangli/Solapur Node.


    (iv) Amritsar Kolkata Industrial Corridor (AKIC):


    The Perspective Plan for overall AKIC Region has been completed. The respective State Governments have identified sites (one each) for developing Integrated Manufacturing Clusters (IMC) along the AKIC. The concept Master Plan for the identified IMCs has been prepared and approved by the States.


    (v) Vizag- Chennai Industrial Corridor (VCIC):


    Government of India gave its concurrence for engaging Asian Development Bank (ADB) for carrying out feasibility study and preparing the Concept Development Plan (CDP) for East Coast Economic Corridor (ECEC) in a phased manner in May, 2014. In the first phase, VCIC segment of ECEC was taken up. Government of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP) is implementing the project. In September 2016, ADB approved US$ 631 million (loans & grants) for VCIC. GoAP is to provide counterpart funding of US$215 million. GoAP has prioritised two nodes namely Vishakhapatnam & Srikalhasti-Thottambedu for master planning.


    Funds Released During Financial Year 2016-17.

                                                                    
S.No.  Industrial Corridor                            Funds Released
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                      (Rs. crore)   
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
1.     Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor(DMIC)         499.86        
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
2.     Amritsar –Kolkatta Industrial Corridor (AKIC)  3.00          
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
3.     Bengaluru Mumbai Industrial Corridor (BMIC)    1.21          
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
4.     Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (CBIC)   0.29          
                                                                    
                                                                    

    This information was given by the Commerce and Industry Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today


    ********


    MJPS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1497214) Visitor Counter : 79