      PIB Headquarters

      PRESS NOTE
      Posted On: 17 MAY 2018 7:15PM by PIB Chennai


    A permanent Philatelic Exhibition was inaugurated at the historic heritage building where first electric theatre was housed at Anna Road HPO complex, Chennai, on 15th August, 2017. Five Exhibitions on the themes - Indian National Movement and Independent India,Postal Communication, Children’s Special, Music, and Women and Women Empowerment,were held so far. The Exhibition has received overwhelming response with more than 1800 students from the city schools visiting it, besides members of public.


    The theme for the month of May 2018 is Heritage Sites, as the Museum Day is celebrated on 18th May. A wide variety of stamps on UN declared Heritage Sites are on displayfrom the collections of Philatelist Mr R. Seetharaman. The collections of Philatelist Mr. Subramanian on Heritage Sites are also on display. This Exhibition is expected to receive overwhelming response from heritage lovers. The Exhibition is organized in association with the South India Philatelists’ Association, Chennai.


    The exhibits cover all aspects of heritage and the classification by the United Nations. One rare Die Card of 1935 showing the Church of St. TrophimeD’Arles is exhibited.To commemorate the holy month of Ramadan, philatelic exhibits on Mosques by Mr. H. Shahul, are on display.


    The primary purpose of this Exhibition is to create awareness and interest among children for pursuing Philately as a hobby, and persons interested in Philately. Short films related to Philately are also screened for the school children at the Exhibition. The Exhibition is open on all working days from 10 am to 6 pm. All the latest stamps issued by the Department are on sale at the venue. Customers can also get their photograph printed instantly on the customised My Stamp for just Rs. 300/-. Customers can open a Philatelic Deposit Account at the Philatelic Bureau, with a minimum amount of Rs 200/- and get all the latest stamps and other materials issued by the Department at their doorstep, free of cost.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532685) Visitor Counter : 50
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil