      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      PRESS NOTE
      Posted On: 17 MAY 2018 5:44PM by PIB Chennai


    ESIC Medical College and Hospital at KK Nagar, Chennai, has observed Swachchata Pakwada from 1st May – 15th May 2018, as part of Swachcha Bharath Mission.


    Dr. Sowmya Sampath, the Dean of the ESIC Medical College, after administering the Swachchata Pledge, has inaugurated the Swachchata Pakhwada Celebration. In the inaugural address, the dean explained the gathering about the salient features of the Swachcha Bharath Mission and also motivated everyone to render their active participation to make the mission successful. Other officers who participated in the events were Dr. Sanjay Mishra, Medical Superintendent of the ESIC hospital, Dr. R.Magesh, Deputy Medical Superintendent, Dr. L.Dhanasekaran, Stores Manager and Deputy Directors of Hospital and Medical College.


    During the Fortnight celebrations the following events were held


    1. Display of Banners


    2. Holding of Exhibition.


    3. Holding of awareness and health check up camps


    4. Holding of quiz competition to ESI beneficiaries


    5. Holding of essay, poster and short film competitions for students and staffs of ESIC


    6. Conducting flash mobs, mimes and skits to create awareness about the mission among the general public.


    7. Mass cleaning programme and planting tree saplings.


    8. Information, Education and communication activities to ESI stakeholders.


    People from all sections of the society including ESI Scheme stakeholders took part actively in these celebrations.


    The fortnight celebration was completed with a formal valedictory function on 15th May 2018 during which the activities undertaken during the fortnight were reviewed and prizes were distributed to successful participants of various competitions conducted during the event.


    ESI Scheme in India


    The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation is a pioneer Social Security organization providing comprehensive social security benefits like reasonable Medical Care and a range of Cash Benefits in times of need such as employment injury, sickness, death etc. The ESI Act applies to premises/precincts where 10 or more persons are employed. The employees drawing wages up to Rs.21,000/- a month are entitled to health insurance cover and other benefits, under the ESI Act. The Act now applies to over 8.73 lakh factories and establishments across the country, benefiting about 3.18 crores family units of workers. As of now, the total beneficiary population of ESI Scheme stands over 12.02 crores. Ever since its inception in 1952, the ESI Corporation has, so far, set up 151 Hospitals, 1467/159 Dispensaries / ISM Units, 813 Branch/Pay Offices and 62 Regional & Sub-Regional/Divisional Offices.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532623) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil