      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      NO SINGLE CASE OF CURRPTION OR ANY IRREGULARITY AGAINST THE UNION GOVERNMENT DURING THE LAST THREE YEARS : RAVISHANKAR PRASAD
      Posted On: 09 JUN 2017 4:47PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Ahmedabad, 09-06-2017


    While addressing a press conference at Ahmedabad on the occasion of 3 years achievement of the Government Union Minister for Electronics and Information Technology, Law & Justice Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad told that there is not a single case of corruption or any irregularity against the present government as well as the PM. This is one of the biggest achievements, as this government is totally transparent and fully dedicated to “development” only. While talking on economy of the Nation, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad informed that present growth rate is robust according to RBI survey and authorized rating agencies.


    He also informed that trade and business has increased remarkable almost in all the field, particularly in the field of I.T. sector. Investments from the foreign / companies also increased, in addition to export – import business. He said “MUDRA YOJANA” is one of the successful schemes of the government and more than 7 crore, people have acquired the loan from this scheme.


    In Gujarat, about 23 lakh people have taken the benefit of this scheme.


    While talking on SMART CITY, the minister has informed that Gandhinagar, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Dahod and Rajkot city were covered under the SMART CITIES.


    Union Minister has also referred the most popular instrument Mobile & its tremendous usage by the people. He told that this is happened only due to revolution in the filed of I.T.


    He informed that Aadhar Card is very important in our country, more then one crore people are being covered and enrolled under the “Aadhar Card”. Number of benefits also given to beneficiaries under the Aadhar provision.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492393) Visitor Counter : 126
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati