      Ministry of Finance

      Chandigarh Government is determined to make India the 3rd largest economy by 2025 with collective efforts of Team India: Minister of State for Finance & Corporate Affairs Shri Anurag Thakur
      "Vivaad se Vishwas" scheme of Government of India aims at substantially reducing the litigation in Income Tax Department says the Minister

      Posted On: 01 MAR 2020 4:00PM by PIB Chandigarh

    Government is determined to make India the third largest economy by 2025 with all out efforts of Team India, Minister of State for Finance & Corporate Affairs Shri Anurag Thakur said while addressing a press conference today in Chandigarh. The recently launched initiative "Vivaad se Vishwas" scheme of Government aims at substantially reducing the litigation in the Income Tax Department, Shri Thakur informed the media. The Minister also had an interaction with members from the trade and industries fraternity in CII auditorium.
    Various representatives openly shared their views on the issues regarding GST return filing and other related issues. The Minister of State for Finance patiently heard the representatives for nearly two hours from each & every sector and segment of Industry and trade and resolved some of the issues during interaction itself.
    The session was organised by the Income Tax Department, Chandigarh and GST Department in collaboration with CII, Chandigarh. Stakeholders from trade and industries including members from PHD Chamber of Commerce, Beopar Mandal, MSME associations of Himachal Pradesh, Haryana Chamber of Industries, etc along with CA Association & BAR Association, Chandigarh participated in the session.
    The Minister also chaired an interactive session in Chandigarh last evening with eminent people from various walks of life like Academia, industry, fine arts and media with endeavour to optimise the efforts for betterment of the people, the economy and society.
    Member CBDT, Shri Prabhash Shankar, IRS, Member CBIC, Shri John Joseph, IRS, Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, North West Region, Dr. P.S. Puniha, IRS, Chief Commissioner GST, Chandigarh Zone, Shri Himanshu Gupta, IRS along with other senior officers from the Income Tax and GST departments were also present.
    DPS/PS/HR


    

    
    (Release ID: 1604803) Visitor Counter : 4