      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Shri Kiren Rijiju inaugurated the 68th India Police Athletics Championship-2019 (AIPAC-19) at ITBP Basic Training Centre, Bhanu in Panchkula district of Haryana
      With an aim to bring India in top 10 in the Olympics scheduled in 2028, the Government has identified 15,000 plus children and started their training across 284 Sports Authority of India (SAI) training centres: Shri Kiren Rijiju

      Posted On: 03 MAR 2020 8:49PM by PIB Chandigarh

    The Minister of State for Youth Affairs & Sports (Independent Charge) and Minority Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju today inaugurated the 68 th India Police Athletics Championship-2019 (AIPAC-19) at ITBP Basic Training Centre, Bhanu in Panchkula district of Haryana.


    Shri Rijiju in his address said that with an aim to bring India in top 10 in the Olympics scheduled in 2028 , the Government has identified 15,000 plus children and started their training across 284 Sports Authority of India ( SAI ) training centres across the country . Children are being identified at a very young age. To achieve this goal, role of the Central Armed Police Forces ( CAP Fs) and State Police organisations becomes very important. Efforts shall be made to assign few games to each force so that we can get good results in Olympics after 8 years. The minister stre s sed that Sports training centres shall be established in the forces. He also streessed that the government would like to handover few of the SAI extension to the State Governments. It will enable SAI to focus more on their National centres of excellence. He stressed upon the importance of sports and physical activities to remain fit. He said that about 20 percent of the world youth is residing in India and as per the latest reports, about 70 percent population of our urban areas is phyically inactive. Taking lessons from the fitness level of security force personnel, the people should do some physical activity . For a country to develop , it is very much required that it’s citizens remain fit and healthy. On the occassion of Khel Diwas on 29 Aug ust 2019, the government has started “Fit India” movement. In this direction, the minister also emphasised that in the parliament, he had emphasised that each parliamentarian should play one or the other game. I naugurating the games formally, the minister emphasized that he is hopeful during the conduct of this Championship, good talent will be identified which will lead to producing good athletes for the country in the future. He lauded the efforts of ITBP in promoting adventure and sports activities in the force.


    Shri Rijiju mentioned that the government will bid for conducting Winter Olympics in India. Keeping in view the expertise of ITBP in operating in snow bound areas , ITBP is likely to be made the nodal agency for the conduct of these games.


    The address of the Minister was followed stunts on motor bikes by the Janbaaz team of ITBP and demonstrations of dog show, Karate and pipe band display by the Mahilas of the force.


    On this occasion , Sh. S S Deswal, IPS, Director General, ITBP, welcomed the Minister and apprised about the achievements made by ITBP in the field of sports. Sh. Deswal, Director General stressed that such competitions bring together the best talent of the State Police and Central Armed Police athletes from across the country on one platform.


    In the end of the ceremony, Shri S.B. Sharma, DIG, BTC , the Organising Secretary of AIPAC-19 presented a vote of thanks. He informed that the majority of the events of AIPAC -2019 shall be conducted till 7th March 2020 at “Tau Devi Lal” Stadium, Panchkula (Haryana).


    *****


    PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605060) Visitor Counter : 5