      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Jansankhya Sthirata Kosh
      Posted On: 19 NOV 2019 3:19PM by PIB Delhi


    Jansankhya SthirthaKosh (JSK), an autonomous body under Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, implemented the following schemes:

     1. Prerna Scheme (for delaying marriage, childbirth and spacing),
     2. Santushti Scheme (Public Private Partnership for sterilization services),and
     3. National Helpline (for information on family planning).

    The JSK has beendiscontinued on 08/02/2019 vide the cabinet decision on 07.02.2018 and various schemes for population control are being supported under National Health Mission;


    STEPS BEING TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO CONTROL POPULATION GROWTH:

     1. Mission ParivarVikas- The Government has launched Mission Parivar Vikas for substantially increasing access to contraceptives and family planning services in146 high fertility districts with Total Fertility Rate (TFR) of 3 and above in seven high focus states. These districts are from the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Assam that itself constitutes 44% of the country’s population.
     2. New Contraceptive Choices- New contraceptives viz. Injectable contraceptive and Centchroman have been added to the existing basket of choices.
     3. A new method of IUCD insertion immediately after delivery i.e. post-partum IUCD (PPIUCD) has been introduced.
     4. Redesigned Contraceptive Packaging - The packaging for Condoms, OCPs and ECPs has now been improved and redesigned so as to increase the demand for these commodities.
     5. Compensation scheme for sterilization acceptors - Under the scheme MoHFW provides compensation for loss of wages to the beneficiary and also to the service provider (& team) for conducting sterilizations.
     6. Clinical Outreach Teams (COT) Scheme - The scheme has been launched in 146 Mission ParivarVikas districts for providing Family planning services through mobile teams from accredited organizationsin far-flung, underserved and geographically difficult areas.
     7. Scheme for Home delivery of contraceptives by ASHAs at doorstep of beneficiaries.
     8. Scheme for ASHAs to Ensure spacing in births.
     9. Scheme for provision of Pregnancy Testing Kits in the drug kits of ASHAs for use in communities.
    10. Family Planning Logistic Management and Information System (FP-LMIS): A dedicated software to ensure smooth forecasting, procurement and distribution of family planning commodities across all the levels of health facilities.
    11. National Family Planning Indemnity Scheme (NFPIS) under which clients are insured in the eventualities of death, complication and failure following sterilization.
    12. Ensuring quality of care in Family Planning services by establishing Quality Assurance Committees in all states and districts.
    13. Appointment of dedicated RMNCH+A counselors at high case load facilities.
    14. Improved Demand generation activities through a 360 degree media campaign.

    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), ShAshwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592172) Visitor Counter : 926
    
    
    
    
    

14.