      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ launches three books for childrennamely Kumbh, Garam Pahad and Dilli ki Bulbul (Sindhi edition) authored by popular writerDr. Anita Bhatnagar Jain
      Posted On: 27 NOV 2019 6:02PM by PIB Delhi


    Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ launched three books which are a collection of stories for children namelyKumbh, Garam Pahad and Dilli ki Bulbul (Sindhi edition)in New Delhi today. Authored by popular writer of children’s books and travelogues Dr. Anita Bhatnagar Jain, the three books are a collection of stories for children and have brought out environmental issues and topics like socio-cultural unity& cultural heritage in a very simple and interesting manner.Dr. Anita Bhatnagar Jain is an officer of Indian Administrative Services (1985 batch).


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Nishank congratulated Dr. Anita for her wonderful writings and called her a unique personality who is balancing between her administrative work and creative work. Appreciating the sensitively written books, the HRD minister said that these books are not a product of imagination of an arm chair writer but have been creatively borne out of the real life experiences of the author. Shri Nishank said that these books are very useful for its readers, especially for children as they are narrating stories of our culture and heritage along with the message of save environment in a very lucid manner. Shri Nishank also congratulated National Book Trust for their efforts in publishing Kumbh and Garam Pahad for their readers.


    During the launch, the author, Dr. Anita Bhatnagar gave brief introduction about her books. She told that ‘ Kumbh ’ is the first Children’s storybook on Kumbh published by National Book Trust. She said that through this book children will come to know about our cultural and social values.


    She informed that ‘ Garam Pahad’ (Green Stories) is collection of 3 stories (‘Garam Pahad’, ‘Son Chiraiya Talab’ and ‘Polythene Ki Pralay’) on Environment published by National Book Trust.


    While giving brief introduction of 'Dilli Ki Bulbul ', Dr. Anita said that it is a compilation of 10 Short Stories on Environment & Morality for Children. She informed Dilli Ki Bulbul was earlier launched by Shri ram Naik, Governor, Uttar Pradesh in Hindi and Union HRD Minister launched its Sindhi translated version today. She also informed that ‘ Dilli Ki Bulbul’ has also been selected for the English version by National Book Trust.


    Dr. Anita Bhatnagar Jain has written overall more than 40 publications including research papers, articles,Travelogues, Children’s stories and books, focused on Environment and Morality.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593855) Visitor Counter : 361
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi