      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Shri Dharmendra Pradhan Visits “Aadi Mahotsav-2019” at Dilli Haat, INA
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2019 8:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Union Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Steel visited the National Tribal Festival “Aadi Mahotsav-2019”at Dilli Haat, INA, today. Smt. Renuka Singh, Minister of State for Tribal Affairs, Shri Manoj Tiwari Member of Parliament, Shri R.C. Meena, Chairman TRIFED, Shri Deepak Khandekar, Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs and Shri Pravir Krishna, MD, TRIFED were also present. 15 days’ festival (16th to 30th November, 2019) is the celebration of the spirit of Tribal Craft, Culture, Cuisine and Commerce. Shri Pradhan visited the Stalls put up by tribal artisans and witnessed their Tribal arts and their performances on the occasion.


    Addressing on the occasion, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan said that the Union Government is committed to the welfare and upliftment of tribal people and during past five and half years, many new initiatives have been taken for the welfare of tribal people of our country. Prime Minister’s Van Dhan Yojana is a great effort in this regard. He said that the National Tribal Festival “Aadi Mahotsav” is a unique and praiseworthy initiative of Ministry of Tribal Affairs and TRIFED. It is providing new avenues of earning for tribal people.


    Smt. Renuka Singh, Shri Manoj Tiwari and Shri R.C. Meena also addressed on the occasion.


    The Mahotsav features exhibition-cum-sale of tribal handicrafts, art, paintings, fabric, jewelry and much more through 220stalls. Over 1000 tribal artisans and artists from different States creating a Mini-India are participating in the festival. The tribes of India have a wide range of handicrafts and the government seeks to promote interaction between tribal artisans and the people..


    The tribal textiles manufactured by Master tribal Craftsmen from Jammu & Kashmir in the North to Tamil Nadu in the South and from Gujarat in the West to Nagaland/Sikkim in the East are the main attractions. For the first time, this Aadi Mahotsav is showcasing a wide range of products from the tribal artisan from Leh (Ladaakh). Apart from this special attraction a wide range of products from North Eastern States are on display and sale.


    In line with the national aspiration to go cashless, the tribal artisans are accepting payment through major credit/debit cards for which Point of Sale (POS) machines have been provided in each stall. A special training has been conducted by State Bank of India for smooth operations of this. The Mahotsav is displaying the rich digital commerce and e-commerce being promoted by Tribes India. It is an effort to take tribal commerce to the next level of digital and electronic transactions. Apart from exotic handicrafts, the Mahotsav is also showcasing the electronic and digital skills of the tribals as a special attraction.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/MoTA-26/11/2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593643) Visitor Counter : 158
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi