      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Char Dham Programme
      Posted On: 28 NOV 2019 1:48PM by PIB Delhi


    An amount of Rs. 1850 crore is likely to be spent on the Char Dham Programme in the current financial year. The Char Dham Programme was initially targeted for completion by March, 2020. However, the schedule date of completion of the programme has been delayed mainly due to litigation in the Hon’ble NGT and further Civil Appeal by the petitioner in the Hon’ble Supreme Court. Further, the section from Dharasu bend to Gangotri (94km) lies under Bhagirathi Eco- Sensitive Zone on which works can be taken up only after approval of Masterplan by MoEF&CC. The Hon’ble Supreme Court vide order dated 08.08.2019 has disposed of the Civil Appeal and constituted a High Power Committee (HPC) to look into the environmental and other issues related to the Char Dham Programme as per the terms of reference set by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. The HPC has been mandated to submit its report within 4 months from the date of the order. The date of completion of the programme depends on the report of the HPC and approval of Masterplan for Bhagirathi Eco-Sensitive Zone by MoEF&CC.


    The projects under Char Dham Programme include widening of existing roads along with adequate/sufficient slope protection by way of erection of retaining walls and breast walls and by deploying drapery system, netting, anchoring, reinforced wall etc. as per Detailed Project Reports. The projects also include mitigation measures/ stabilisation of chronic landslide & sinking spots/zones as standalone project or part of road widening projects to avoid land slide and safety of road users. Bio engineering methods like hydro seeding are being used for vegetative growth on fragile slopes for their stability. All these measures shall safeguard the highway and habitation against natural calamity.


    The works under Char Dham Pariyojna are being implemented on Engineering Procurement and Construction (EPC) mode of contract. These projects are being implemented by 3 executing agencies of Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, viz, Uttarakhand State PWD, Border Road Organization (BRO) and National Highway & Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL). For each project, a Supervision Consultant called Authority ’ s Engineer comprising of a team of Key Experts has been appointed for day - to - day supervision and monitoring of the construction works, which includes monitoring of quality control of the works as required under the contract agreement . This Supervision Consultant reports directly to the concerned executing agencies in respect of day to day progress and various other aspects of the project . Regular monitoring of progress of the work is done at the level of concerned executing agencies and also at Ministry ’ s level . , Further, under this EPC mode of contract, the contractor is directly responsible for ensuring quality of the work as well as rectification of defects and maintenance of the project stretch for a period of 4 years after completion of construction.


    This information was given by Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Shri Nitin Gadkari in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    RCJ/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593962) Visitor Counter : 612
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali