      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Mahila Sashaktikaran Scheme
      Posted On: 22 NOV 2019 2:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Mahila Shakti Kendra (MSK) Scheme, under Ministry of Women and Child Development, was approved in November 2017 as a centrally sponsored scheme, to empower rural women through community participation. Under the Scheme, Capacity Building of Women Collectives is envisaged in not more than 50% of the MSK blocks in 115 aspirational districts to address the livelihood needs of the women particularly those in remote/vulnerable areas where women are not in a position to move out from their immediate surroundings for formal skill training. This component is to be implemented in collaboration of NGO’s/ Cooperative Societies/ KrishiVigyanKendras.


    Ministry of Women & Child Development has released funds (central share) for three aspirational districts in Andhra Pradesh namely Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and YSR Kadapa for undertaking block level activities in 8 blocks per aspirational district. A total number of 24 blocks at 8 blocks per aspirational district were identified by the Government of Andhra Pradesh. The names of the selected blocks are given below:


    Identified Blocks in Aspirational Districts Under Mahila Shakti Kendra Scheme

                                                                    
Sl. No.           Name of the District  Name of the Block Identified
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
1.                YSRKadapa             Kadapa                      
                                                                    
                                                                    
                
Proddutur       
                
                
                
C.K Dinne       
                
                
                
Rayachoty       
                
                
                
B. Kodur        
                
                
                
Galiveedu       
                
                
                
Porumamilla     
                
                
                
Vempally        
                
                
                                                                    
2.                Visakhapatnam         Gajuwaka                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
                
Chodavaram      
                
                
                
Araku           
                
                
                
Paderu          
                
                
                
Chinthapalli    
                
                
                
Narsipatnam     
                
                
                
G. Madugula     
                
                
                
S. Rayavaram    
                
                
                                                                    
3.                Vizianagaram          Ganyada                     
                                                                    
                                                                    
                
Cheepurupalli   
                
                
                
Badangi         
                
                
                
S. Kota         
                
                
                
Bhogapuram      
                
                
                
Salur Rural     
                
                
                
Gajapathiangaram
                
                
                
Bhadragiri      
                
                

    This information was given by the Minister of Women and Child Development, SmritiZubinIrani, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593043) Visitor Counter : 1128