      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Kaushal Acharya Awards
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2019 3:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) launched the National Skill Development Mission (NSDM) in 2015 to provide a strong institutional framework to implement and scale up skill development efforts across the country through short term and long term training.


    MSDE launched the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna (PMKVY) to mobilize youth to take up skill training with the aim of increasing productivity and aligning the training and certification to the needs of the country. Owing to success of PMKVY 1.0 wherein more than 19 lakh students were trained as against the target of 24 lakh, the scheme was re-launched as PMKVY 2.0 (2016-2020) with an aim to train 10 million youth by the year 2020.


    Based on the learning from first phase of the scheme, changes were made under PMKVY (2016-2020) to ensure quality and standardization which, inter alia, include steps such as: one stop web-based solution for Centre Accreditation, Accreditation Standards Grading Metrics to benchmark the Training Centers (TCs) across the country, evaluation of TCs for their performance related to Monitoring Standards such as placements, branding, infrastructure etc., mandating Aadhaar Based Biometric attendance for Trainees, Trainers and Assessors, incentivizing Training Centers for providing placement to trained candidates.


    The Government has taken a number of other steps to enhance the quality of skill training throughout the country. These, inter alia, include notification of National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF) as a competency based framework to be adopted by all skill development programmes, establishment of Sector Skill Councils (SSCs) as industry led bodies to develop National Occupational Standards, focus on apprenticeship training and laying down of common norms for standardization of inputs and outcomes.


    Directorate General of Training (DGT), Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) is entrusted with the responsibility of long term vocational training in the Country. The L ong term training is imparted through 15,042 Industrial Training Institutes (Govt. 2738 + Private 12,304 ITIs) . Initiatives for improving quality of Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) include, formulation of new affiliation norms, grading to evaluate their performance, ISO 29990 certification to raise the overall quality and standards, regular inspection of ITIs, regular up-gradation of training content of ITI curriculum as per industrial requirement etc.


    On the occasion of Teacher's day, MSDE honoured 53 trainers from diverse backgrounds with the Kaushal Acharya Awards for outstanding contribution in creating a future-ready and skilled workforce. The ministry further announced that Kaushal Acharya Awards will become an annual affair.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SK/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594193) Visitor Counter : 627
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu