      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Government launches ‘JANAUSHADHI SUVIDHA’ – Oxo-biodegradable Sanitary Napkin – under the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP)
      
      Affordable sanitary napkins at Rs. 2.50 per pad now available at over 3600 Janaushadhi Kendras functional in 33 States/UTs across India

      Posted On: 04 JUN 2018 7:17PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Chemicals & Fertilizers, Road Transport & Highways, Shipping, Shri Mansukh L. Mandaviya, launched the ‘JANAUSHADHI SUVIDHA’, the Oxo-biodegradable Sanitary Napkin, under the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP), here today. The affordable sanitary napkins will now become available at over 3600 Janaushadhi Kendras functional in 33 States/UTs across India, as promised by Union Minister, Chemical & Fertilizers and Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Ananthkumar on March 8, 2018 (World Women’s day).


    Shri Mandaviya said that this is a special gift for all Women on the eve of World Environment day, as this unique product would ensure Affordability, Hygiene as well as Ease of use and disposal for them. Jan Aushadhi Suvidha comes with a special additive, which makes it biodegradable when it comes in contact with oxygen after being discarded. This would ensure ‘Swachhta, Swasthya and Suvidha’ for the underprivileged Women of India and go a long way in the achievement of Prime Minster Shri Narendra Modi’s vision of Affordable and Quality Healthcare for All, the Minister added.


    Emphasizing upon the affordability aspect of SUVIDHA, Shri Mandaviya said that the average price of sanitary napkins available in the market today is around Rs. 8 per pad, whereas now with the launch of the SUVIDHA napkins at Rs. 2.50 per pad, this will go a long way in making the basic hygiene requirement aid for Women affordable for the underprivileged sections.


    Shri Mandaviya noted that this is one of the most important requirement in ensuring the Health Security to that section of Women in India who still use unhygienic aids during menstrual period due to non-affordability of some of the popular brands of sanitary napkins available in the market today. Such unhygienic aids cause fungal infections, Reproductive Tract Infection, Urinary Tract Infection, Cervical cancer and also make women vulnerable to infertility.


    According to the National Family Health Survey 2015-16, about 58 percent of women aged between 15 to 24 years use locally prepared napkins, sanitary napkins and tampons. Further, about 78 percent women in urban areas use hygienic methods of protection during menstrual period; only 48 percent women in rural areas have access to clean sanitary napkins.


    Other dignitaries present on the occasion included Shri Navdeep Rinwa, Joint Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals, Shri Sachin Singh, CEO, Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India (BPPI), along with other senior officers of the Ministry.


    *****


    VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1534320) Visitor Counter : 1611
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati , Tamil , Malayalam