      PIB Headquarters

      BUILDING COMPETITION CULTURE IN INDIA
      THIRD ROADSHOW ON COMPETITION LAW TO BE ORGANIZED BY THE COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA ON TUESDAY, 18TH DECEMBERAT HOTEL COURTYARD MARRIOTT, AHMEDABAD

      Posted On: 14 DEC 2018 5:29PM by PIB Ahmedabad

    The Third Roadshow on Competition Law is being organised by the Competition Commission of India at Hotel Courtyard Marriott, Ahmedabad on 18 th December, 2018 with a view to scale up Competition Advocacy and reach out to important stakeholders in the state of Gujarat. The Roadshow is being organised in association with Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA), a thinktank under the aegis of Ministry of Corporate Affairs.Competition Law Roadshows are being conducted by CCI at different locations with a view to step up competition advocacy and reach out to greater number of stakeholders in newer and better ways.


    The Roadshow is expected to be attended by senior policy makers from Central Government, various State Governments, participants from the public sector enterprises, industry, legal and finance professionals, corporate lawyers, academics, and other relevant stakeholders. The day-long event is to focus on Public Procurement, Trade Associations, Cartels and Leniency.


    This event is the 3 rd in the series of many Roadshows which are being organised by the Competition Regulator at different locations.


    Different stakeholder groups critical for building competition culture are being sensitised by the Competition Commission of India in a focused manner by these roadshows. The first roadshow was organised in Mumbai on 15 th October, 2018 with a focus on cartels and mergers. The second roadshow was organised in Delhi on 5 th November, 2018 with a focus on public procurement, bid rigging, cartels and leniency. Both the roadshows were attended by a large number of delegates from the Govt., Trade and Industry and professionals and had generated a huge response.


    Mr. Vijay Rupani, Chief Minister of Gujarat, is the chief guest for the event. Other dignitaries attending the event include Dr. J. N. Singh, Chief Secretary, Government of Gujarat,Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta, Chairperson, Competition Commission of India, and Dr.Jaimin R. Vasa, President, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry.


    The Roadshowat Ahmedabad will have two open house sessions. The first session will be on Infusing Competition in Public Procurement and will be chaired by Mr. A. M. Tiwari, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Government of Gujarat, and the second session will be on Trade Associations, Cartels and Leniency and will be chaired by Mr. Augustine Peter, Member, CCI. The open house sessions will be followed up by a session on Vibrant Gujarat. CCI would also be displaying its advocacy booklets, videos and animated films on various features of competition law and its need for various stakeholders.


    About CCI


    The Competition Commission of India was established in the year 2003 under the Competition Act, 2002 to prevent practices having adverse effect on competition, and to promote and sustain competition in markets, to protect interest of consumers and to ensure freedom of trade in markets in India. Under Section 49 of Competition Act 2002, the CCI is mandated to carry out advocacy programmes on competition matters.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555973) Visitor Counter : 74
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati