      PIB Headquarters

      The 84th Anniversary General Meeting of Indian National Science Academy (lNSA-AGM)
      Posted On: 24 DEC 2018 3:59PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    The 84 th Anniversary General Meeting of Indian National Science Academy (lNSA-AGM) will be hosted by Physical Research Laboratory (PRL) during December 26-28, 2018.This prestigious event will be co-hosted by Institute for Plasma Research (IPR) and Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn),and half-day sessions will be organized at IPR and IIT-Gn on 27 December, 2018.


    The anniversary meeting will be attended by around 200 delegates including INSA Fellows, other eminent scientists of the country from various scientific and engineering disciplines, ÍNSA Young Scientist awardees, INSA Teacher awardees and newly inducted fellows.This meeting will be graced by Secretaries of Department of Space, Department of Science &Technology and Ministry of Earth Sciences, and Directors of a few ISRO Centres as well as Directors of prominent research institutions of India.


    The inaugural function of the INSA-AGM is on 26 th December at 0900 AM at K R Ramanathan Auditorium of Physical Research Laboratory main campus (Navrangpura). The programme schedule is attached herewith.


    The important events of the INSA-AGM on 26 th December includes “Vikram Sarabhai Space Science Symposium (VS4): Innovations from Space Program” scheduled during 11:45 to 13:30. This will be followed by two special award lectures, namely, “Meghnad Saha Medal Lecture” on Navigating Complexity by Common Sense by Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST,and “Aryabhatta Medal Lecture” on Need for Integration of Ayurveda with Modern Biology and Medicine by Prof. S.C. Lakhotia. Other six symposia are based on diverse topics of science and engineering themes like “Sustainable Energy and Chemical Engineering Platforms”, “Drug Discovery and Drug Development: The Indian Narrative”, “Ethics in Science and Education”, “Water Futures”, “AI-Scaling Up Artificial Intelligence in India”, and “Food Security and Genomics”.


    NP/J.Khunt/GP/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557193) Visitor Counter : 70
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati