      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      4th Regional Quality Conclave held in Guwahati
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2019 5:05PM by PIB Guwahati


    The 4 th Regional Quality Conclave (RQC) by Quality Council of India & FICCI was held today at the NEDFi Convention Centre, Guwahati. The theme of the Conclave was “Quality for Manufacturing Competitiveness”.


    Shri Ravi Capoor, Additional Chief Secretary, Industries & Commerce, Government of Assam inaugurated the one-day Conclave. In his speech, Shri Capoor said, “No country has progressed in the last decade as much as India. To maintain the economic growth, we have to focus on quality in the process of manufacturing. We should not only check the quality after the product is manufactured, but we should ensure quality while the process is going on.


    Shri Capoor further added, “For instance, if we can ensure that the tea produced in Assam is of the best quality, then it will bring a huge economic change. The need of the hour is to build a good eco-system of quality control. We need to train the new entrepreneurs and imbibe a sense of quality within.”


    Shri Shyam Bang, Chairman, National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies (NABCB), Quality Council of India & FICCI Task Force on Manufacturing Excellence, in his address, said, “There should be a push from all side to grow the manufacturing sector in our country. The Contribution of manufacturing to our country’s GDP is huge. One of the major factors for manufacturing growth is quality control; we have to strive hard to improve the quality system in our country.” Shri C. K Biswas, CEO, National Board for Quality Promotion (NBQP) was also present in the occasion.


    The one-day Conclave had various sessions on topics such as Zero Defect Zero Effect, Reducing Cost of Poor Quality, New Technologies for Smart & Sustainable Manufacturing & a panel discussion on Policy Measures for Enhancing Quality & Competitiveness.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575912) Visitor Counter : 47
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese