      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      13th National Statistics Day celebrated by National Statistical Office in Guwahati
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2019 2:00PM by PIB Guwahati


    The 13 th National Statistics Day was celebrated today by the National Statistical Office (NSO), Field Operations Division (FOD), Guwahati under the Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation, Govt. of India in Guwahati. The theme of this year’s Statistics Day is “Sustainable Development Goals”.


    Prof. R. M Dubey, IFS (Retd.), Head of the Centre for Sustainable Development Goals, Assam Administrative Staff College was the Chief Guest of Honor in this occasion. In his address, he said, “This Day is celebrated nationwide every year in order to create awareness among the people, especially the younger generation, for drawing inspiration from Prof. P. C Mahalanobis about the role of Statistics in Socio Economic Planning & policy formulation. He is the father of modern Statistics in India.” Prof. Dubey also talked about the sustainable developments goals in details and stated that these goals are a call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure peace across the world.


    Guest of Honor, Prof. Amit Choudhury, Director, Institute for Distance & Open Learning, Gauhati University, said, “National Statistics Day is celebrated on this day every year in the birthday of Prof. P. C Mahalanobis by organizing events like seminars and lectures on Statistics by the Regional & Zonal offices of the FOD. To popularize the use of Statistics in everyday life and to aware the general public about how it can help in shaping policies, this day needs to be celebrated widely. ”


    Another Guest of Honor in this occasion, Prof. Sangeeta Barthakur, Associate Proffessor, Dept. of Statistics, Cotton University pointed out, “We need to raise the popularity of the subject Statistics. Statistics has a role to play in pertinent areas like climate change etc. Statistics can help in every sphere of modern life if it is applied methodically”.


    Shri A. K Biswas, the Additional Director General, NSO, Shri Jagat Hazarika, Director NSO and senior level officers and staffs from NSO, Zonal & Regional offices, faculties of various colleges, research scholars & students of various fields attended the programme. Paper presenters from various renowned institutions like Centre for Sustainable Development Goals, Gauhati University, Cotton University also participated in the programme.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576302) Visitor Counter : 49
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese