      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      ARTISTS OF REGIONAL OUTREACH BUREAU, GUWAHATI CARRYING FORWARD THE IDEA OF EK BHARAT SHRESTHA BHARAT WITH THEIR PERFORMANCE
      Posted On: 19 JAN 2020 6:08PM by PIB Guwahati


    Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati under Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, GoI made the Ex-servicemen rally organised at Narangi Military Station lively with their colourful presentation of dance and song performances today. The rally was attended by about 1,000 ex-servicemen, war veterans, veer naris and their dependents from Kamrup (Metro) & Kamrup Rural. Governor of Assam Prof Jagadish Mukhi attended the rally as the Chief Guest.
    
    One of the major attraction of the colourful presentations included the Ghoomar, the traditional folk dance of Rajasthan. This performance is part of the Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat programme wherein Assam has been paired with Rajasthan. This idea aims to make every State familiar with the culture of different States in the country and improve mutual relations between them in order to nurture positive thinking.
    
    Prof Jagadish Mukhi congratulated the Directorate of Sainik Board and 51 Sub Area for organising such a wonderful gathering of the ex-servicemen. These kind of rallies help us in honouring the supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers for the country, he added. Praising the valour and sacrifice of the Veterans, Prof Mukhi assured full support of the State towards their welfare. The Governor also felicitated Veer Naris, widows and Ex-Servicemen
    
    Maj Gen Jarken Gamlin, AVSM, SM, VSM, GOC, 51 Sub Area in his address emphasised the commitment of the Army towards the welfare of Veer Naris and Veterans. Brig ND Joshi, SM (Retd), Director, Rajya Sainik Board, Assam apprised the gathering about various welfare schemes run by Government of Assam for Veer Naris and Ex-Servicemen. He also informed the gathering that a huge number of ex-servicemen and their dependants have got themselves benefitted in various rallies and Pension Adalats that have been organised at various parts of the state.
    
    A medical camp was also organised, as part of the rally, which benefitted a large number of veterans and their families. Other facilities in the rally included assistance booths for processing of Jeevan Praman Patra, Pension anomalies, ECHS Cards, Canteen Smart Cards and assistance in civil re-employment through Army Placement Node.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599814) Visitor Counter : 19
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese