      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      1615 NDFB cadres lay down arms today
      Government committed to fulfill promises made in Bodo Peace Accord: CM
      Posted On: 30 JAN 2020 4:20PM by PIB Guwahati


    A total number of 1615 members of Bodo militant organization National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) laid down their arms and ammunition today in an arms laying down ceremony held at GMCH auditorium, Guwahati. A total number of 178 weapons were surrendered by the four factions of NDFB in today’s event. Followed by the historic Bodo Peace Accord signed between Centre, State government and NDFB on 27th January 2020, today the cadres officially surrendered their arms and ammunition in presence of Sarbananda Sonowal, Chief Minister of Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma, Finance Minister of Assam, state ministers, various government and police officials and other dignitaries.


    
    Welcoming the surrendered NDFB cadres to the mainstream Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal urged them to contribute to the nation building process. He also assured that the present government will fulfill all the promises made in the Bodo Peace Accord. Mentioning todays arms lay down step as a golden opportunity for growth he urged the surrendered militants to utilize their strength for the development of Assamese community. Saying that this day will add a new chapter to the peace process of the state, the Chief Minister said that a comprehensive rehabilitation policy would be formulated for providing employment opportunities to the surrendered militants.


    
    Himanta Biswa Sarma said in his speech that today is a historic day for not only Assam but for the whole nation as the four factions of the NDFB laid down their arms and joined the mainstream. This move will further contribute towards the peace process in the state. He said that during the last one month under the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership two major initiatives have been taken in North East in form of the BRU Accord in Tripura and Bodo Peace Pact in Assam. He informed that Bodo Autonomous Council bill would be tabled soon and the full autonomy committed to the Bodos would be provided. He also informed that all measures for the rehabilitation of the surrendered militants would be taken. The minister also urged the other militant groups like ULFA(I) to come forward for talk with the government for bringing peace to the state.


    
    Bodo Territorial Council (BTC) Chief Hagrama Mohilary during his speech congratulated the surrendered militants and urged them to come forward and join hands for the development of the BTC. He also said that this peace accord is not only for the people of Bodo Community but for every communities of the area in every aspect.


    
    ************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601137) Visitor Counter : 6