      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Launch of Food Regulatory Portal Announced
      “Nivesh Bandhu” An Investor Facilitation Portal to be Launched during World Food India 2017

      Posted On: 01 NOV 2017 7:24PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Food Processing Industries, Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal chaired the Press Conference detailing about the activities to be undertaken in the World Food India 2017 Expo, here today. As India gets ready to host its biggest food event aiming to transform the food economy and double farmers’ income, Smt. Badal gave a glimpse of the magnitude of the event to media in an interactive session. Minister of State for Food Processing Industries, Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti also graced the occasion with her presence.


    Speaking on the occasion, Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal said World Food India is a mega event which would showcase the entire value chain in the food sector. 160 Global CEOs will come under one roof. Globally & Nationally it is one of the biggest event. This event is expected to generate Rs. 65000 Crore worth of investment and 10 lakh jobs. She also said that this event will take the varied flavours of India to the world and showcase the healthy multigrain 'khichadi' to the visitors.There has not been any mega event before of this scale where FDI commitment has got crystallized even before the start of the event. "We have a vision of transforming Indian food economy and doubling farmer’s income by bringing latest technologies evolution and best practices into the system in keeping with the vision articulated by Honourable Prime Minister" said the Minister. "We are working towards easing the process of doing business for Global and Domestic industry players as well as bringing in new talent to achieve India’s greatest potential in the coming years" she said.


    As global and Indian food companies prepare to explore business opportunities in India at World Food India 2017, MoFPI and FSSAI, the apex Regulatory body for Food Safety in India announced a powerful new tool called ‘the Food Regulatory Portal.’ Planned as a single interface for food businesses to cater to both domestic operations and food imports, this portal would be a game changer for effective and transparent implementation of the food safety laws in the country. Aiming to create an enabling environment for businesses to operate, the portal is strategically aligned with Government’s mission of One Nation, One Food Law. Smt Badal said that FSSAI's Food Regulatory portal will be a step forward in that direction and she congratulated FSSAI for implementing it. She also said that during World Food India 2017, an Investor Facilitation Portal “Nivesh Bandhu” will be launched to assist investors to make informed investment decisions. "India is ready with open arms to welcome global food companies" said Smt Badal. The portal would provide information on Central and State Governments’ investor friendly policies, agro-producing clusters, infrastructure, and potential areas of investment in the food processing sector.


    Smt Badal also appealed to each individual to take a pledge – ‘NO WASTE ON MY PLATE’- to make India Food Secure. Minister of State for Food Processing Industries, Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti said that after World Food India a good response from investor community is expected in Food Processing Sector. More than 40 countries have committed FDI in Food Processing Sector till now. This is the first time such Exhibition on Food Processing is happening in India.


    Spelling out more details of the upcoming three day event, Minister Smt Badal informed that the mega convention is scheduled to be inaugurated by Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi on 3rd November 2017. Mr Maris Kucinskis, Prime Minister of Latvia & Mr Serzh Sargsyan, President of Armenia will also be addressing the Inaugural Session. President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind will address the Valedictory Session on 5th November 2017.


    World Food India 2017 will provide global businesses a platform to explore Indian market across the value chain in food processing and food retail, to bring together global & Indian leaders across the food value chain and Showcase the strengths of India in the Food processing & allied sectors; Connect domestic and international businesses for possible partnerships and Facilitate collaboration, investment flow and encourage sourcing from India.


    Exclusive CEOs roundtables have been scheduled with Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi, Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs Shri Arun Jaitley and Minister of Commerce and Industry Shri Suresh Prabhu with CEOs of leading global & Indian food processing companies. Illustrative list of Industry Captains participating in World Food India from across the globe and India includes Mr Paul Bulcke , Chairman of the Board of Directors, Nestle, Mr Pieter Boone, Chief Operating Officer & CEO, Metro Cash and Carry, Mr Brian J McNamara, CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare, Ms. Amanda Sourry, President, Food Unilever; Mr.Sharafuddin Sharaf, Al – Sharaf Group; Mr.Yusuff Ali, Managing Director, LuLu Group, Mr Kishore Biyani, CEO, Future Group; Mr Krish Iyer, CEO, Walmart India; Mr Amit Agrawal, CEO, Amazon, India to name a few. A total of 60 Global CEOs including Asia Pacific (APAC) leadership of leading companies will be interacting with leading CEOs from 100+ top Indian food processing leaders. Over 1000 m B2B meetings are expected to take place over three days.


    World Food India 2017 has received tremendous response globally, attracting participation from more than 40 countries, 27 state governments including all the North-Eastern states. Germany, Denmark, and Japan are the partner countries for the event while Italy and Netherlands are the focus countries.


    International Ministerial & business delegations with 200+ members from 15 countries will take part in B2B/B2G meetings. The mega event would also host 8 sectoral conferences, 2 plenary sessions on “India the preferred destination” with the Finance Minister of India as the Guest of Honour and one on “One Nation, one food law- an enabling regulatory environment for investment in the food sector” in association with the Food Standards and Safety Authority of India. In addition, there are 20 State sessions and 6 country sessions. 7 sectoral publications would be released at the event.


    A massive exhibition spread over 40,000 sq mtrs in the verdant C- Hexagon lawns of India Gate is expected to attract significant footfalls. More than 800 global companies representing 22 Countries & domestic companies will be exhibiting. Special focus on Farmer Producer Organizations & Women Entrepreneurs will connect them to corporates – international & Indian- increasing opportunities for sourcing & business.


    Ministry of Food Processing Industries’ Theme Pavilion provides an exciting view of India’s offering to the world in terms of products, a geo mapping of produce availability and mega food parks, through multiple technologies like Virtual & Augmented reality.


    A special feature of the Event is the “Food Street” - a lively vibrant zone, that will showcase Indian and foreign cuisines using Indian ingredients, flavours and fragrances, specially curated by Chef Sanjeev Kapoor. The Food Street is a unique concept that would act as a platform for guests to learn about the globalisation of Indian food through interactive chef talks and demonstrations, experience the traditional flavours as well as modern fusion food and give the attendees a wholesome experience about the diverse uniqueness that Indian food offers.


    The event is supported by Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Development of North East Region, Ministry of External Affairs and Ministry of Civil Aviation.


    *******


    SBS/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507928) Visitor Counter : 311