      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Smt. Sumitra Mahajan inaugurates 65th foundation day celebrations of EPFO in New Delhi
      Posted On: 01 NOV 2017 7:31PM by PIB Delhi


    
    Centre sincerely working to create new avenues of employment: Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar

    Lok Sabha Speaker, Smt. Sumitra Mahajan praised the efforts of Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) to digitalize the services to accelerate the claims of EPFO beneficiaries in Provident Fund, Pension & Insurance. Smt Mahajan stated it while inaugurating 65th foundation day celebrations of EPFO in New Delhi, today. She also inaugurated 1 MW solar power plant at various regional offices of EPFO.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister of State (IC) for Labour & Employment, Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar said that EPFO has taken a long jump since its inception in 1952. EPFO has achieved various milestones in last 65 years. The journey began with 5.5 lakh beneficiaries and now EPFO covers 4.5 crore employees today. Shri Gangwar further stated that EFPO now covers more than 10 lakh establishments which initially was 1267.


    The Labour Minister said that EPFO has started various new initiatives to accelerate the process of online registration of employers . EPFO is spreading the coverage area of its schemes for workers from unorganized sector.


    Shri Gangwar stated that central government is sincerely working to create new avenues of employment and self-employment under the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi. Recently the government has decided to construct 83,000 km highways which will create 32 crore man-days within a span of 5 years. He further stated that Mudra Yojna has created a lot of self- employment as 9.5 crore people have been given loan amounting to 4 lakh crore.


    The Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment, Smt. M Sathiyavathy said that EPFO has done the tremendous job by adding more than one crore members in the six months span during January to June 2017.


    The Commissioner, EPFO, Dr V.P. Joy said that EPFO is committed to Digital India initiative. He hoped that EPFO will become a totally digitalized and paperless office by August 15, 2018.


    SKP/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1507931) Visitor Counter : 161
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil