      Ministry of Home Affairs

      A Women’s group of SEWA from J&K calls on Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir
      Posted On: 01 NOV 2017 4:26PM by PIB Delhi


    A group of 25 women from Jammu and Kashmir, who are visiting the city on a Bharat Darshan tour programme, called on the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir here today. The group comprises members of the Self Employed Women's Association (SEWA) from Kupwara, one of the worst militancy affected districts of the Kashmir Valley.


    With a view to encourage the women of Kupwara associated with SEWA and to develop strong bonds with women in other parts of the country for closer social, cultural and emotional integration, the project for Bharat Darshan tour of four batches (25 women in each group) was approved in September, 2017.


    While interacting, the members of SEWA stated about the benefits of joining the SEWA. They told that there is need for marketing their products so as to increase their earnings. Speaking on the occasion, Shri Ahir said that MHA will help support the marketing across the country of products made by the SEWA members from J&K. He said the SEWA centre at Kupwara is augmenting the Prime Minister’s objectives of Skill Development and Make in India, and the involvement of women from J&K is especially noteworthy. Self Help Groups are key to the Government’s programmes aimed at social welfare and poverty alleviation.


    The Women Centric Welfare Scheme is being run in Kupwara through SEWA under the Civic Action Programme (CAP). Under this, setting up of Resource Centre at Kupwara, J&K by SEWA was approved in 2012. SEWA proposed to train 3,500 women including 500 master trainees of Kupwara in various activities i.e Cutting, Tailoring, Handicraft, Food Processing, Renewable Energy and Agriculture and allied activities. Against the target, SEWA has trained 3,883 trainees and 558 master trainees.


    The SEWA Kupwara Centre has now been registered under the Registration of Societies Act VI of 1998 under the name “Shehjar District Association Kupwara” on June 20, 2017. Some of the women workers have started their own enterprises like boutique, craft, stitching centre etc. Based on their skill enhancement, some of them are involved in production orders for reputed designers. Further, activities related to Agriculture, Horticulture Supply Chain, Farm Management and Renewable Energy have been conducted in Kupwara. The Kupwara Centre has also tied up with Coca Cola for selling of apples.


    ******


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507823) Visitor Counter : 116