      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Technology is critical for Communication and Content – Shri N.K. Sinha
      I&B Secretary addresses “The Cable and Satellite Broadcasting Association of Asia (CASBAA)” 2017

      Posted On: 07 NOV 2017 6:11PM by PIB Delhi
      Secretary I&B Shri N.K. Sinha has said that the communication technologies being used today were important tools to provide effective messaging, content and facilitate continuous dialogue with the target groups.This strategy enabled the Government to disseminate information on criticalflagship schemes such as Make in India, Digital India, Khelo India etc. thereby adhering to the vision of Reform, Perform and Transform as envisaged by theHon’ble Prime Minister. Shri Sinha, stated this while addressing the CASBAA platform at Macau today.

        Elaborating further, Shri Sinha emphasized the vital role of public broadcaster Prasar Bharati in facilitating two way interface between the state and the citizen. Referring to Mann Ki Baat, he statedthat it was an important platform forinnovative and accessible communication. Secretary mentioned that it was imperative to ensure quality programmes in the field of Education, Agriculture, Health, Financial Inclusion, Innovation and Cleanliness etc. He lauded the role of DD free dishin attaining the overall objective of informing different target segments through varied content.


        Referring to thechanging media landscape, Shri Sinha said that in the changed landscape, the citizen had become an important stake holder and participant in the governance process.As part of the overall growth for the M&E Sector, providing regional content in local languageswas important for all major platforms.Reiterating the potential of regional media, Shri Sinha said that the future growth parameters in the media space depended on the development architecture of regional media. Coupled with technological changes, local and regional outreach and the varied tastes of different segments, the promise and scope for expansion was immense. It was imperative to balance the need and requirements of different stake holders to ensure the flow of quality information to the people at large.


        ***


        CP/GV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508549) Visitor Counter : 184