      Vice President's Secretariat

      Terrorism is a global concern that demands global attention: Vice President
      
      Posted On: 07 NOV 2017 6:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Calls on His Majesty, The King Philippe of Belgium

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that terrorism is a global concern that demands global attention and requires global cooperation. He was interacting with His Majesty, The King Philippe of Belgium, in New Delhi today. Senior officials from both sides were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President drew the attention of growing menace of terror across the globe. His Majesty agreed that this was a major global challenge and appreciated India’s support to Belgium in the hour of crisis when terrorism stuck their country. The Vice President suggested that India believes in an early conclusion of negotiation and adoption of the Comprehensive Convention on International terrorism at the United Nations. His Majesty the King of Belgium expressed support to India’s view in this regard.


    The Vice President said that India and Belgium today are two vibrant democracies and share several ideals and principles. He further said that democracy, rule of law, freedom of speech, independent judiciary, free press and protection of human rights are fundamental values through which our societies are held together. Belgian academicians have made notable contribution to the advancement of Indian language studies, particularly Hindi and Sanskrit, in India and Belgium, he added.


    The Vice President said that more than 1,30,000 Indian soldiers fought in the battle fields of Belgium during the First World War, and more than 9,000 made the supreme sacrifice. He expressed his happiness that the King would inaugurate the exhibition on contribution of Indian soldiers in the First World War and also release a coffee table publication, “India in Flanders Fields”. This indeed is a tribute to the heroism and sacrifice of Indian soldiers, he added.


    The Vice President said that India today is an attractive business destination for Belgian businesses and would encourage Belgium Small and Medium Enterprises to explore tie-ups with Indian Start Ups. He further said that India’s 100 Smart Cities initiative is aimed at harnessing the economic potential of urban centres. Belgian companies with expertise in urban transportation solutions, energy efficient technologies, smart citizen services, sanitation and waste management will find many business opportunities in India, he added.


    A high level delegation was accompanying the King of Belgium.


    ***


    KSD/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508558) Visitor Counter : 118
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil