      AYUSH

      Ayurveda and Yoga can Check Non-Communicable Diseases effectively: Shri Shripad Naik
      Posted On: 03 NOV 2017 8:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The Indian traditional medicine system and Yoga can play a prominent role in checking Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs). This was stated by Sh. Shripad Naik, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH at the pre-event workshop of the first World Non Communicable Diseases Congress 2017 in Chandigarh today. The Minister said the Government has already started an All India Institute of Ayurveda and work on 66 hospitals all over India under AYUSH has already begun to promote traditional methods of treatment. Specialty treatment facilities are being created at AYUSH at all levels. Shri Naik further said that NCDs have been the major cause of deaths in the recent years and are posing a big threat. Generally called life style diseases, these have now spread in rural areas also, the Ayush Minister added.
    
    Shri Shripad Naik said that scientists’ efforts to check NCDs are commendable but ancient systems like Ayurveda and Yoga have to be adopted as they take a holistic view of health and well being. Moreover, they are economical and safe. Shri Naik said that the Government intends to bring quality and differential changes in the health system in the country. AYUSH Ministry has developed a Yoga protocol for diabetes. Mission Madhumeh has been launched to provide an effective check to the menace of diabetes which itself is a root cause of many other health problems. The Minister said that the aim is to develop India into a Healthy India (Swasth Bharat).
    
    Director, PGIMER, Chandigarh Dr. Jagat Ram in his remarks said that almost two-third of the deaths in the world nowadays are due to NCDs. PGI would be able to develop a Department for Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha & Homeopathy) to promote these traditional systems of health & well being. Dr. Jagat Ram said that the benefit of Yoga is that it can go along with other regular meditation also.
    
    The three days’ Congress is jointly organized by "The World NCD Federation" & "Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER)", Chandigarh and will have several pre and post event workshops. The theme of the Congress is "Preventing Non-Communicable Diseases: Realizing Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)" .

    ***


    
    
    NB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508221) Visitor Counter : 279