      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      India and Egypt Have Great Synergy in Sports and Youth Affairs : Col Rathore
      Egypt Offers its Excellece Centers for Training Indian Sports Teams
      
      Col Rajyavardhan Rathore Meets Egyptian Sports Minister
      Posted On: 05 NOV 2017 6:10PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports, and Minister of State for Information & Broadcasting, Col Rajyavardhan Rathore met his Egyptian counterpart Mr Khaled Abd El Aziz on the sidelines of World Youth Forum at Sharam El Sheikh, Egypt today.
    
    Col Rathore congratulated Mr Aziz for Egypt qualifying for football World Cup in Russia 2018. Mr Aziz on his part praised successful holding of FIFA U17 by India and expressed keen interest in Mission 11 Million (MXIM), football outreach program.
    
    Recalling, recent dynamism in the ties between the two countries, Col Rathore said that the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and President Sisi of Egypt have met four times and have taken the relationship to a new level. Mr Aziz praised Indian leadership for taking long term decisions in quick and decisive way. Col Rathore briefed him about the various initiatives by the Prime Minister on Financial inclusion, skilling the youth and the schemes like Start up India, Mudra and Make in India. “As two oldest civilizations, we need to forcefully implement the vision of our leaders for our youth. India is a nation of youngsters and we need to provide them an environment to realize their dreams”, said Col Rathore.
    
    Mr Aziz offered their centre of excellence like the Olympic Centre for short term training programme for Indian sports teams. Col Rathore informed him about the decision of hiring Egyptian trainers and support staff for squash. Col Rathore also asked the Egyptian Minister to encourage local students to take up seats in Indian universities meant for foreign students. Col Rathore mentioned the upcoming Khelo India School Games in December. “We want to change the attitude towards sports among the Indians. We wish to make sports aspirational” said the Minister.
    
    Col Rajyavardhan Rathore thanked the Egyptian government for promoting strong people to people connect. International Day of Yoga this year invited enthusiastic participation from the Egyptian public in the holy month of Ramzan.
    
    Col Rajyavardhan Rathore is attending World Youth Forum on behalf of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. 52 countries are participating in the Forum. Four youngsters sponsored by the Department of Youth from India are also participating forming the part of strong Indian presence at the Forum. President Abdel-Fatteh Al Sisi will inaugurate the Forum later today.

    *****


    
    
    AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508286) Visitor Counter : 217
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil