      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Meeting of Labour & Employment Minister with Central Trade Union Organizations on 12 Point Charter of Demands
      Posted On: 07 NOV 2017 9:01PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Labour and Employment(Independent Charge), Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar met the representative of all Central Trade Unions in Shram Shakti Bhawan on 7th November 2017 to discuss the issues raised in 12 Point Charter Demand of CTUOs. The meeting was attended by representatives of major Central Trade Unions including BMS, INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, AICCTU, LPF, UTUC and NFITU as well as Secretary, Labour and Employment Mrs. Sathiyavathy and other the senior officers of the Ministry. 12 Point Charter Demand of CTUOs inter alia raises issues of minimum wages, price rise, unemployment, disinvestment, universal social security, compulsory registration of trade unions, increase in minimum pension under EPFO and strict compliance and enforcement of labour laws. The Minister said that the Government has highest regard for the consultative process and he is committed to uphold it. He referred to the calls for nation-wide demonstrations on 9th-10th and 17th November by the CTUOs and BMS respectively and appealed the Trade Unions to rather engage in the constructive discussions on each of the issue raised by them.
    
    Minister said that the Government and the Ministry of Labour and Employment has consistently and continuously taken pro-labour decisions and initiatives. He talked about initiatives like simultaneous increase in Minimum wages, the provision for National Floor Level Minimum wages in the proposed Labour Code on Wages. The Bonus Amendment Act, the decision to enhance Minimum pension to Rs. 1000/- as well as the other initiatives taken by other Ministries.
    
    Trade Union representatives primarily demanded the Government to address the issues of enhancing Minimum Pension to Rs. 3000/- as well as Minimum Wages. They also talked at length about the issues related to enforcement of labour laws, and social security for unorganized workers including growing contractualization.
    
    A presentation was also made by the Ministry to present an updated status on the 12 demands raised by the CTUOs.
    
    Addressing the Media persons the Minister expressed hope that the talks with the Trade Union Representatives was positive and it was done in a cordial atmosphere. He appealed to the Trade Unions to call off the proposed Dharna.

    *****


    
    
    Skp

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508576) Visitor Counter : 197