      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      EPFO Organized National Seminar on “Fraud Risk Management – The New Initiatives”.
      Posted On: 03 NOV 2017 5:38PM by PIB Delhi


    As a part of “Vigilance Awareness Week – 2017” organized nationwide to promote transparency and probity in public governance, EPFO organized a national seminar on “Fraud Risk Management – The New Initiatives” at India Habitat Centre, New Delhi today. The seminar was inaugurated by Dr. T.M. Bhasin, Vigilance Commissioner, CVC. Dr. V.P. Joy, Central P.F. Commissioner presided over the function.
    
    Setting the tone of the seminar, Shri Bhasin appreciated the efforts of EPFO in embracing technology for improving transparency in citizen-government interface. He congratulated EPFO in adding value to Ease of Doing Business in the country that helped India jump 30 points to come in the prestigious group of 100 countries in ease of doing business. He stressed the need for further systemic improvements for mitigation and prevention of occurrence of frauds.
    
    Dr. V.P. Joy, CPFC highlighted the recent digital initiatives undertaken in EPFO for ensuring transition from the erstwhile manual system of claim settlement to online claim submission and payment system that has freed employers from mandatory cumbersome paperwork and has given much needed relief to employees in getting their claims settled promptly in a very transparent manner. He further added that EPFO is set to become an electronic paper free organization by 15th August 2018 which would certainly herald a new and dynamic phase of business and service delivery proficiency.
    
    Shri Nilimesh Baruah, Principal Commissioner of Income Tax and former Director, SFIO spoke about the early warning system for identification and detection of corporate frauds and gave the details of the structure and mode of operations of the shell companies in managing unaccounted cash and importance of creating proper database for fraud detection.
    
    A documentary film on EPFO highlighting its initiatives and achievements was also screened in the seminar.

    *******


    
    
    SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508164) Visitor Counter : 261