      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Visits Forward Army & Airforce Bases in Assam & Arunachal Pradesh
      Posted On: 05 NOV 2017 7:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Mantri Smt Nirmala Sitharaman visited the forward Army posts in Arunachal Pradesh and Air Force base in Eastern Assam today. The visit to the forward army and Air Force bases followed her visits to Bomdilla and Itanagar in Arunachal Pradesh yesterday, where she attended the inauguration ceremony of the Buddha Mahotsav 2017 and called on the Governor of Arunachal Pradesh at Raj Bhawan in Itanagar. In today’s visit to the forward army post of Kibithu in Eastern Arunachal Pradesh, which is in continuation with her visits to forward areas along the Line of Actual Control, she was accompanied by Lt Gen Abhay Krishna, UYSM, AVSM, SM, VSM, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command and other senior officers of the Indian Army.
    
    The minister was briefed on the situation and defence preparedness along the Line of Actual Control. She also interacted with the troops and appreciated their dedication to the service and efforts in such a remote and inhospitable terrain. As part of this visit the Raksha Mantri also visited the important Eastern air base of Chabua, where she was received by Air Marshal Rajesh Kumar VM, Senior Air Staff Officer HQ Eastern Air Command, and Air Commodore George Thomas VM, AOC, Air Force Station Chabua. During the visit she took stock of the operational preparedness and infrastructure development of the base. The strategic base presented a static display of the combat assets available at the station to the Defence minister, which included the Sukhoi 30 MKI fighter aircraft and modern Missiles. She also interacted with Air Force personnel serving in this eastern most region of our nation and had lunch with the air warriors. She complimented the air warriors for their professional approach and commitment in the service of the nation. She appreciated the operational readiness, ongoing infrastructure development and the high morale of the Air Force personnel at the base.

    *****


    
    
    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508290) Visitor Counter : 126