      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      India Pavilion Launched at Cop 23 in Bonn “Conserving Now, Preserving Future” is India’s Theme
      Posted On: 06 NOV 2017 9:06AM by PIB Delhi


    The India Pavilion at COP 23 was inaugurated by Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan at Bonn in Germany today. The Minister is leading the Indian delegation, which is participating in the 23rd Conference of Parties (COP-23) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) being held at the Bonn, Germany from November 6-17, 2017. The inauguration of India Pavilion was attended by the partner ministries, government departments, multi-lateral and bilateral partners, industry associations, Non-Government Organisations and Civil Society Organisations and others.
    
    India’s theme for COP 23 “Conserving Now, Preserving Future” takes India’s message forward. He expressed happiness over the organization of the India Pavilion at COP-23 and added that India has been ambitious in its climate change actions, and expects other countries also to be ambitious based on their historical responsibility on the basis of equity and Common But Differentiated Responsibilities. He invited all participants to be active members of discussions, deliberations and sessions scheduled at the India Pavilion.


    Additional Secretary, MoEF&CC, Shri. Arun Kumar Mehta, said that over the next 11 days, India will be organizing 20 sessions, covering issues important for climate change adaptation and mitigation. He added that presentations and panel discussions involving experts from both public and private spheres will be hosted.
    
    In his address, Joint Secretary MoEFCC, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, welcomed the Minister and expressed the hope that through its activities, the India Pavilion will create awareness about India’s positive climate actions. He added that the India Pavilion will strive to become an ideal platform for the exchange of innovative ideas for the world to come together and take action.
    
    The India Pavilion at COP 21, Paris and COP 22, Marrakesh showcased climate change related activities under the themes of Climate Justice and Sustainable Lifestyles. This year at COP 23, the India Pavilion from November 6-17, focuses on India’s positive climate actions in adaptation, mitigation, clean technology innovation’ and renewable energy.

    ***


    
    
    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508427) Visitor Counter : 894