      Vice President's Secretariat

      Education must build character and promote good conduct: Vice President
      
      Interacts with students at Adikavi Nannaya University
      Posted On: 06 NOV 2017 4:48PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Education must build character and promote good conduct. He was addressing the gathering after laying Foundation Stones for University Arts College & University Botanical Garden and inaugurating Amenities Centre & NTR Convention Centre at Adikavi Nannaya University, in Rajahmundry, Andhra Pradesh today. The Governor of Andhra Pradesh, Shri E.S.L. Narasimham, the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, Shri N. Chandrababu Naidu, the Deputy Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, Shri N. Chinarajappa and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that there is a need for raising the standards of education and increasing the professional competence of teachers. He further said that India was once known as 'Vishwaguru' and Indians, irrespective of caste and creed, were blessed with lot of talent and intelligence and those qualities have to be fully tapped to make students acquire knowledge and face contemporary challenges.


    The Vice President said teachers must transfer the world of learning. He further said that they should be friendly mentors and act as role models in behavior and attitude. Students can't be made to learn by force and must be taught with love and affection.


    The Vice President said that the education is not merely to get employment and the purpose of education to enlighten and empower an individual. He further said that education must build character, caliber and capacity besides promoting good conduct. While we are enhancing access to higher education, there is a general feeling that quality of courses and the teaching processes needs to be considerably improved, he added.


    *****


    KSD/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508364) Visitor Counter : 187