      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      First Heli Expo India & International Civil Helicopter Conclave Inaugurated Today
      Posted On: 04 NOV 2017 7:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The 1st Heli Expo India and International Civil Helicopter Conclave-2017 is inaugurated in New Delhi today by the Uttrakhand Tourism Minister Shri Satpal Maharaja ji in the presence of the Secretary, Civil Aviation Shri R.N. Choubey, CMD Pawan Hans, Dr. B. P. Sharma and other dignitaries. The first issue of Pawan Hans Magazine Aviation Today is also unveiled by the chief guests on this occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Uttarakhand Tourism Minister said that the helicopter taxi services have a huge potential for enforcing law and order, air ambulance services, to check forest fire and can provide better connectivity to religious and tourist destinations located in rough terrain of hilly areas.


    On this occasion the Secretary, Civil Aviation Shri R.N. Choubey said that India has achieved a growth rate of about 20% in domestic air travel section in the last three years, which is the highest growth rate in the world Civil Aviation Sector. He said however, that this growth rate is confined to fixed wing traffic only and the helicopter traffic is much less in India. He said that the National Civil Aviation Policy tries to address this gap. As per the new NCAP, helicopters are free to fly from point to point without prior ATC clearance in airspace below 5000 feet. Shri Choubey said the aviation agencies should start exploring the option to start helicopter taxi services between Delhi -NCR and other North Indian States.


    This two days 1st Heli Expo India & International Civil Helicopter Conclave-2017 is organised by Pawan Hans Limited, a Mini Ratna company of Ministry of Civil Aviation in association with PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry with the theme of ‘Enhancing Connectivity’ at the Pawan Hans Heliport, Rohini, New Delhi. Experts from Industry and Defence Forces and representatives from ICAO and SAARC countries attended the conclave.


    An exhibition is also organised at the venue. The second day is open for public, where one can visit the exhibition and pre-book the Delhi Darshan joy rides by Helicopter.


    ****


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508251) Visitor Counter : 180
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil