      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Over 480 tribal artisans from over 25 States will be participating in upcoming AADI MAHOTSAV from 16th to 30th November 2017
      The Theme of the festival: A Celebration of the Spirit of Tribal Culture, Cuisine and Commerce.

      Posted On: 14 NOV 2017 6:25PM by PIB Delhi

    Ms. Leena Nair, Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs, addressed Curtain Raiser Press Conference on upcoming AADI MAHOTSAV, to be organized at Dilli Haat New Delhi from 16th November 2017 to 30th November 2017, here today. Shri Pravir Krishna, Managing Director, TRIFED and other senior officials were also present on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Ms Leena Nair said that the festival will be inaugurated by Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, Vice President of India at 5.30 pm on 16 th November 2017. Shri Jual Oram, Union Minister for Tribal Affairs will preside over the inaugural function in the august presence of Shri Jaswantsinh Sumanbhai Bhabhor and Shri Sudarshan Bhagat, Ministers of State for Tribal Affairs.


    Ms Nair said that Ministry of Tribal Affairs along with Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation Ltd (TRIFED), is organizing “AADI MAHOTSAV” a celebration of the spirit of Tribal Culture, Cuisine and Commerce.


    Ms Nair said that the festival will feature exhibition-cum-sale of tribal handicrafts, art, paintings, fabric, jewellery and much more through 160 stalls. In line with the national aspiration to go cashless, for the first time the tribal merchandise stalls will be accepting payment through major credit / debit cards.


    Ms Nair said that over 480 tribal artisans from over 25 States will be participating in the festival. A special feature of the festival is Tribal India cuisine, recreated and presented in delectable forms to suit urban tastes by special tribal chefs. Ms Nair further mentioned that tribal music and dance will be showcased at the venue every evening from 6.30 PM to 8.30 PM. Nearly 250 artists from 20 States are expected to perform during the festival.


    The Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Ms. Leena Nair addressing the Curtain Raiser Press Conference on upcoming Aadi Mahotsav. The Managing Director, TRIFED, Shri Pravir Krishna is also seen.


    BACKGROUNDER


    MSP for MFP Scheme for providing a fair and equitable deal to the tribals.


    Minor Forest Produce (MFP) is a major source of livelihood for tribals who belong to the poorest of the poor section of society. The importance of MFPs for this section of the society can be gauged from the fact that around 100 million forest dwellers depend on MFPs for food, shelter, medicines and income. It provides them critical subsistence during the lean seasons, particularly for primitive tribal groups such as hunter gatherers, and the landless. Tribals derive 20-40% of their annual income from MFP .This activity has strong linkage to women’s financial empowerment as most of the MFPs are collected and used /sold by women. MFP sector has the potential to create about 10 million workdays annually in the country.


    Government of India has taken a number of initiatives for socio economic development of tribals like introduction Forest Rights Act, 2006 (Section- 3), PESA Act, 1996 (Section -4), and has been implementing schemes for development of MFP by providing financial support to State TDCCs and TRIFED for market development of MFPs. Recognizing the critical importance which MFPs hold for tribals and the potential to generate large scale employment opportunities empowering the tribals, Government of India introduced an ambitious scheme of providing fair price for the MFP collected by tribals through Minimum Support Price (MSP).


    The scheme was ready for implementation in March 2014 after a series of studies conducted by the Planning Commission since 2007 (Haque Committee & Sudha Pillai Committee) the recommendation of which supports providing support price to MFP gatherers, enhance their income level and ensure sustainable harvesting of MFPs. The MSP scheme seeks to establish a framework to ensure fair prices for the produce collected by them, assurance of buying at a particular price, primary processing, storage, transportation etc. while ensuring sustainability of the resource base. It is a holistic scheme for development of MFP trade and covers 24 non - nationalized / non - monopolized MFPs namely, Karanj Seed, Mahua Seed, Sal Leaf, Sal Seed, Lac ( Rangini & Kusumi ) , Chironjee, Wild Honey, Myrobalan, Tamarind, Gums ( Gum Karaya ) , Kusum Seed, Neem Seed, Puwad Seed, Baheda, Hill Broom Grass, Shikakai, Guggul ( exudate ) , Bael ( dried & without crust ) , Nagarmotha, Palash Kesuda ( Flower ) , Shatavari ( dried ) , Madhunashini, Kalmegh, Tamarind ( de - seeded ). The scheme is applicable for implementation in all the States across India . Any de - nationalized MFP / items removed from the purview of monopoly procurement in future will also qualify for coverage under the Scheme . Similarly, any nationalized / monopolized procurement MFP will disqualify for coverage under the Scheme . However, if any State willingly wants any nationalized items to be included in MSP, then it shall have to change its nationalized status accordingly .


    The focus is on setting up the basic infrastructure at the village Haat Bazzar where the tribal brings his forest produces on head loads. Due emphasis is to be given to primary value addition at the village level and secondary and tertiary value addition in PPP mode at the next level. Government of India extends financial support towards part of working capital requirement of State Implementing Agencies in the form of Revolving Funds and also share losses, if any, with the State Govts. in the ratio of 75:25. It is expected to increase quantum of MFP procurement substantially thereby benefitting tribal people. The Scheme also envisages training of tribal MFP gatherers on sustainable harvesting and value addition activities including facilitation for marketing of the produces so that natural resources can be optimally utilized in a sustainable manner.


    The scheme seeks to institutionalize various medium & long term aspects of sustainable collection, value addition, market infrastructure development, knowledge base expansion of MFPs, market intelligence development etc. Strengthening the bargaining power of Gram Sabhas / Panchayats and their involvement shall also be addressed and taken care of during implementation of the scheme.


    The scheme aims to touch the lives of tribal people involved in collection of MFPs across all the States and help optimum utilization of natural resources in a sustainable manner. This scheme will be an important milestone in economic development of tribals.


    About TRIFED - Retail Trade


    Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development of India Ltd., (TRIFED) is an organization under the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Govt. of India and is engaged in marketing development of tribal products including tribal art & craft under the brand name “TRIBES INDIA”. The main mandate of TRIFED is capability enhancement of the tribals, promotion of tribal products and creation of marketing opportunities for the tribals with a view to ensuring them fair prices for their products and augmenting their income on sustainable basis.


    Towards the attainment of this mandate, TRIFED is engaged in the retail operations for marketing of unique and ethnic tribal handicrafts and natural products in high end markets through a chain of retail outlets under the brand name “TRIBES INDIA” across the country. It also focuses on trainings for skill up-gradation and capacity building of tribal artisans and gatherers of Minor Forest Produce. TRIFED, with its Head Office at New Delhi, has a network of 14 Regional Offices and a chain of retail outlets (expanding every year) across the country.


    “TRIBES INDIA” showrooms offer a range of tribal products of different parts of the country, which include Metal Craft, Tribal Textiles, Jewellery, Tribal Paintings, Cane & Bamboo, Pottery, Gifts and Novelties, Organic and Natural products sourced from tribals at their places of habitats from higher Himalayas (Bhutia tribes in the Uttrakhand, Bodh & Kinnaura tribes in Himachal Pradesh) in the North to the Ghats of Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea in South (Toda & Irula tribes in Nilgiri Hills) in the South and from North Eastern States (Tangkhul Naga, Bodo, Konyak & Dimasa tribes) to the desert of Rajasthan and Rann of Kutch (Bhil, Garasia, Rathwa, Gamit tribes ) in the West. There is fabulous collection of tribal paintings mainly Saura from Orissa, Gond from Madhya Pradesh, Warli from Maharashtra and Pithora from Gujarat.


    From a single store in 1999 at Delhi, now TRIFED has established a chain of 42 retail outlets out of which 29 are its own outlets across the country besides tie-ups with as many as 13 State level Emporiums. The idea is to provide opportunities to the tribal artisans of the country to market their products on a sustained basis. TRIFED plans to expand this network to other cities as well, so as to provide a larger market for tribal products.


    In pursuance of the above objectives of TRIFED and for having a wider impact of our operations, TRIFED plans to scale up the Retail Marketing Activities for achieving a sale goal of Rs.40 Crores in the current financial year and Rs.100 Crores by the end of next financial year, through sustained efforts of ramping up supply and creation of demand, with a purpose of benefitting maximum number of tribal artisans through association and expertise of Central/State Departments/Organisations/Agencies/reputed NGOs working with tribal artisans.


    ❖ Discount Scheme/offers :


    ● “Friend of Tribes”: In order to promote tribal products and Tribes India as a brand and also to create a captive customer base,TRIFED is issuing “Friends of Tribes” Loyalty Card, offering discount of 20% on most of the products being sold through Tribes India Outlets located across country. The Card holders shall be also eligible for an additional 10% discount, in case festival/other discount scheme is already existing at the Outlets at that time but not exceeding 40%.


    ● Special discount scheme for Central/State Government Employees: A special additional discount of 10% on prevailing discounts/offers is being offered to all the Central/State Government Employees at all our Outlets on production of their official Identity Card issued by their department.


    ● Offer packages: For every purchase of products above Rs. 2,000/-, attractive gifts will be given.


    ● Festival discount: Festival discount of 10% on Food and Natural products and 15% on all other products are being on specific festive/occasion.


    ● Upto 40% Discount Scheme Sale: Maximum discount upto 40% are being offered on select stocks. Offers applicable till stock lasts.


    ● Standard terms & conditions shall apply.


    ❖ Sale through Franchise Outlets:


    TRIFED plans to expand its Retail Operations by opening of Franchise Outlets for sale of tribal products. Under this model, TRIFED will get the stocks delivered at the franchisee premise, as per the requirement of Franchisee. The stocks to be delivered shall be limited to the amount of security deposit to be submitted by the Franchisee in form of demand draft or banker cheque or bank guarantee. The Franchisee shall sell the products on the MRP fixed by TRIFED in the brand name of Tribes India from their sales outlet with their manpower and other resources. Transportation cost, GST etc on the stock shall be borne by the TRIFED. Franchisee shall be paid a commission ranging from 10-25% on net sales and sales proceeds shall be payable once in a month. All the products supplied by TRIFED will carry “Tribal Craft Mark” in form of hologram/ label/tag for its genuineness and authenticity.


    `


    ❖ Sale through “Young Entrepreneur Development Programme”:


    TRIFED plans to expand sale operations by empanelling young and smart sales boys/girls for undertaking house to house campaign for sale of our tribal products. These young sales boys/girls shall be known as “ Young Entrepreneurs of TRIFED (YET)”. Under this programme, young boys and girls fulfilling the prescribed basic criteria shall be registered as Entrepreneur of TRIFED for a period of 1 year, which will be renewed depending upon the performance of the YET. A registration letter and I-Card shall be issued to these YET, who shall undertake house to house campaign for sale of our tribal products. The YET shall be provided e-brochure comprising of photographs of products available with complete details and required publicity material for showing to the customers. They shall also be provided with small samples as per their requirement for showing to the customers and in lieu of sales made through them TRIFED shall pay a commission of 10% on net sales to them.


    ❖ Sale through e-commerce platforms:


    The various e-commerce platforms offers a huge potential for promotion and sale of tribal products. TRIFED is already selling tribal products through snapdeal.com and www.amazon.in. However, TRIFED is also expanding its operations through other e-commerce portals.


    ****


    MKV/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1509492) Visitor Counter : 359