      Ministry of Defence

      Award of President’s Standard and Colours to 223 Squadron and 117 Helicopter Unit
      Posted On: 11 NOV 2017 6:24PM by PIB Delhi


    The Hon’ble President of India and the Supreme Commander of Indian Armed Forces, Shri Ram Nath Kovind would be awarding the prestigious President’s standard to 223 Squadron and 117 Helicopter Unit during a ceremonial parade scheduled to be held at Air Force Station Adampur on 16 Nov 17. The commanding Officer of 223 Squadron, Group Captain Prabhat Malik and Commanding Officer of 117 Helicopter Unit, Wg Cdr N Batra will receive the President’s Standard. The President will also release a First Day Cover of 223 Squadron and 117 Helicopter Unit during the ceremony.
    
    Operational outfits of IAF become eligible for award of President’s standard on completion of 18 years. The selection is based on their performance and achievements, both during peace and hostilities. This honour is and acknowledgement of the meritorious service rendered by the selected units. The President’s Standard is a visible symbol of excellence has been earned by these Units through their dedication and worthy contribution both during peace and war. The Presidential Award marks and epitomizes the hard work, valour and sacrifice of all the personnel posted to these Units since their inception. It is a befitting recognition of their selfless service dedicated to the nation.
    
    Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa, PVSM AVSM YSM VM ADC, Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal C Hari Kumar, AVSM VM VSM ADC Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief Western Air Command along with other dignitaries would also witness the ceremony. Retired Air warriors and previous Commanding Officers of both the recipient units are also invited for the occasion.
    
    Various dignitaries expected to grace the President’s standard Presentation Ceremony on 16 Nov17, are the Governor of Punjab, Chief Minister of Punjab and senior Government Officers from Punjab Government.

    *****


    
    
    AB/DK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1509079) Visitor Counter : 103