      Ministry of Coal

      Coal India Limited and Railways jointly succeed in loading 250 coal rakes on 14th November, 2017 which is an all time high achievement for the month of November.
      
      
      The synergetic efforts of CIL and Railways with close monitoring by the Ministries of Coal, Railways and Power have resulted in this unprecedented growth in coal off-take and improved despatch for power sector in particular.
      
      
      
      CIL and Railways are now aiming for loading of 266 coal rakes/day.
      
      
      
      The growth in coal despatch to power sector in the last three months came as a big help for coal based power plants despite the drop in generation from hydro, nuclear as well as imported coal based plants.

      Posted On: 15 NOV 2017 5:57PM by PIB Delhi

      In a major achievement, the synergetic efforts of Coal India Limited (CIL) and Railways with close monitoring by the Ministries of Coal, Railways and Power have resulted in unprecedented growth in coal off-take and improved despatch of coal for power sector in particular. Strengthening coal transportation and coal production effectively, Coal India Limited loaded 250 rakes of goods train through Indian Railways system on 14 November 2017, an all time high achievement for the month of November to ensure smooth coal supply. Out of these rakes, 223 rakes were exclusively loaded for thermal power stations across the country.


      Achieving a loading of 250 rakes in a day in the month of November has set a new record. This achievement has been in spite of the continuation of sporadic rains in some of the coalfields. Normally, loading at such levels is attained from late December when the onset of favourable environment helps in ramping up coal production.


      CIL and Railways are now jointly working on a strategy to enhance loading target to 266 coal rakes per-day which will further help both power and non-power sector in meeting their demands for coal.


      The growth in coal despatch to power sector in August, September and October of the current Fiscal has been 20%, 21% and 18% respectively as compared to the same period in the previous fiscal year. This has helped coal based power plants in meeting the spurt in demand of festive and paddy season, despite the drop in generation from hydro, nuclear as well as imported coal based plants.


      CIL is poised to contribute load of 300 rakes through Indian Railways which includes about 35 rakes for coal beneficiation and coal lifted through road for loading from Goods Shed sidings of Indian Railways.


      *****


      AKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1509646) Visitor Counter : 130