      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Tribal development is important to achieve object of inclusive development: Vice President
      
      
      Vice President inaugurates Aadi Mahotsav - a fortnight long Tribal Festival with the theme of ‘A Celebration of the Spirit of Tribal Culture, Cuisine and Commerce’
      
      
      Minister of Tribal Affairs Shri Jual Oram presides over the Tribal Festival Inauguration
      
      
      
      The festival features exhibition-cum-sale of tribal handicrafts, art, paintings, fabric, jewellery and much more through about 200 stalls
      
      
      
      Over 750 tribal artisans from over 25 States participated in the festival

      Posted On: 16 NOV 2017 9:01PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu inaugurated ‘Aadi Mahotsav’ - a fortnight long Tribal Festival with the theme of ‘A Celebration of the Spirit of Tribal Culture, Cuisine and Commerce’ today i.e 16 Nov 2017 at New Delhi. The inaugural function presided over by Minister of Tribal Affairs Shri Jual Oram. Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Sudarshan Bhagat was specially present to grace the occasion. Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs Ms. Leena Nair, Managing Director, TRIFED Shri Pravir Krishna and other senior officials were also be present on the occasion.


    Over 750 tribal artisans from over 25 States participated in the festival. Aadi Mahotsav is organized at four venues throughout Delhi. The details of the venues and dates of the festival are as under.


    Dilli Haat, INA - 16-30 November, 2017


    Dilli Haat, Janakpuri - 16-19 November, 2017


    Central Park, Rajiv Chowk - 16-17 November, 2017


    Handicraft Bhawan, Baba Kharak Singh Marg - 16-19 November, 2017


    The Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu at the inauguration of the “Aadi Mahotsav”. The Union Minister for Tribal Affairs, Shri Jual Oram, the Minister of State for Tribal Affairs, Shri Sudarshan Bhagat are also seen.


    Speaking on the occasion the The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that the tribal development is an important component to achieve the object of inclusive development (Sabka Vikas). He said that this festival will prove very useful to introduce this wonderful cultural heritage to all over India and the world. He further said that another advantage through this festival can be that the objects and artifacts made by tribals will have an opportunity to sell them and get financial benefits. Their efficiency will be rewarded in the form of economic prosperity, he added.


    The Vice President said that our constitution enjoins upon the Government the responsibility of addressing the special needs of the tribals. He further said that the tribes must be drawn to the mainstream, but at the same time it is important to ensure that their culture remains intact. Adivasis are the aboriginals and their way of life is guided by primal truths, eternal values and a natural simplicity, he added.


    The Vice President said that Government seeks to promote interaction between the tribal artisans and the mainstream designers from reputed design organizations. He further said that events such as this Aadi Mahotsav are very important in this regard. The Government has formed the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (Trifed) for achieving this, he added.


    The Vice President congratulated the Ministry of Tribal Affairs and TRIFED organizers of this Aadi Mahotsav. He invited the tribal artisans to make the best use of this opportunity to forge links with other artisans and market drivers.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “Today, I extend my heartfelt greetings to the tribal brothers on the auspicious occasion of Aadi Mahotsav. Tribals are very dear, heartwarming people of Bharat Mata. Adivasi brothers and sisters have favored the life of our country with their melodious and joyful music, joy of pleasure, unique handicrafts.


    This festival will prove very useful to introduce this wonderful cultural heritage to all over India and the world. Another advantage through this festival can be that the objects and artifacts you make will have an opportunity to sell them and you will also be able to get financial benefits. Your efficiency will be rewarded in the form of economic prosperity.


    I hope that all of you will be able to take full advantage of this opportunity. I urge you to continue the effort that way so far you have preserved your cultural heritage. This is an invaluable heritage. It is very important to promote, disseminate and increase it. In this endeavor, the government is supporting and will give tribute to artistic creative enthusiasm, giving special attention to it.


    The tribes constitute over 8% of the country’s population. This is a very significant number. In real terms it corresponds to over 10 crore Indians. The national object of inclusive development (Sabka Vikas) includes the development of tribes as an important component. Our constitution enjoins upon the Government the responsibility of addressing the special needs of the tribals.


    The Government has always treated the tribes with a special concern. However, there are unique challenges in the field of tribal development. This is because the tribes must be drawn to the mainstream, but at the same time it is important to ensure that their culture remains intact.


    The attitude of urban mainstream towards the tribes is often characterized by a belief that we have a lot to teach the tribes to help them to develop. What we generally tend to forget is that in fact the tribes have a lot to teach urban India. When we deal with the tribes, we must always keep an open mind. We must maintain our humility.


    What is special about the tribes? As the name of this event suggests, it is the ‘adi’ factor that is important about them. Adivasis are the aboriginals. Their way of life is guided by primal truths, eternal values and a natural simplicity. The greatness of the tribes lies in this that they have managed to retain the primal skills and their natural simplicity. Their creations have a timeless appeal. The crudest tribal handicraft instantly touches a chord in all of us. This is also particularly true of tribal music and dance.


    The tribes of India have a wide range of handicrafts. These include hand-woven cotton, wool and silk fabrics, woodcrafts, metal craft, terracotta, bead-work, masques and other objects. They also produce compelling paintings.


    Government has rightly recognized the need to channel the artistic talents towards income generation. It is for this reason that the Government seeks to promote interaction between the tribal artisans and the mainstream designers from reputed design organizations. The idea is to expand the product range and designs. The synergy between these two can generate marketable products of art and handicraft for the top-end global market.


    Single items of bell-metal produced by the late Jaideo Baghel of Kondagaon in Bastar sold for as much as five lacs of rupees! This only points to the fact that on the one hand there are skills in the tribal pockets of India, and on the other hand there is high-end demand in our cities and in the international market.


    The need is to put two and two together for a win-win result. Events such as this Aadi Mahotsav are very important in this regard. The Government has formed the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (Trifed) for achieving this.


    I am happy that Trifed is doing significant work in this direction and have now embraced e-commerce and digital platforms to take the business forward.


    Apart from handicrafts, the tribes gather from the forests a range of forest produces. These include various tree-borne products like flowers, fruits, seeds, barks and leaves; and various insect produces like honey. All these are completely organic products.


    We know that organic food products command a premium price. Trifed must tap this premium market which is a niche market. And, more importantly, Trifed must ensure that the benefit of higher prices accrues to the tribal. I understand that the scheme of minimum support price for forest produces has been expanded to cover all states and twenty four key products. The scheme now needs to be implemented in full earnestness.


    I congratulate the Ministry of Tribal Affairs and TRIFED organizers of this Aadi Mahotsav. I invite the tribal artisans gathered here to make the best use of this opportunity to forge links with other artisans and market drivers. I am happy to see the enthusiasm here and the colourful festive atmosphere. I hope in the times to come we will see more of such events.


    The Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu lighting the lamp to inaugurate the “Aadi Mahotsav”. The Union Minister for Tribal Affairs, Shri Jual Oram, the Minister of State for Tribal Affairs, Shri Sudarshan Bhagat are also seen.


    Shri Jual Oram, Minister for Tribal Affairs welcoming the Vice President stated that it was important to promote the trade of Tribal Artisans and to this effect the Ministry had launched a number of programmes including Friends of Tribes Cards, opening of Franchises outlets and given a big push to Retail Trade through exhibitions and opening of new retail outlets. He said that the Ministry was targeting to achieve a target of Rs. 100 crores in sales of tribal products to raise tribal incomes. TRIFED has achieved a turnover of Rs. 20 Crore in the sale of tribal products this year. TRIFED has also entered the Electronic and Digital era and signed MoUs with leading e-commerce portals including GeM, a Government of India portal for e-commerce. Tribes India outlets accept payments by credit card and swipe machines to promote digital transactions. Tribals in Aadi Mahotsav have been trained for use of modern retail machines.


    Shri Sudarshan Bhagat, Minister of State for Tribal Affairs in his address stated that there was a need to promote MSP for MFP in the country so that the tribals get a fair price and the Ministry is making all out efforts for the same. He stated that there is a great potential for value addition in this scheme including in his own State, Jharkhand and in the rest of the Country. The scheme had the potential to double and triple the tribal incomes. He also said that every year we celebrate Birsa Munda’s anniversary but this year we have celebrated it by organizing Aadi Mahotsav.


    Ms. Leena Nair, Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs welcomed the guests and stated that it was a Red Letter Day for the Ministry and TRIFED. The Vice President of India’s presence has invigorated us and we rededicated ourselves to the service of tribal brothers and sisters. Aadi Mahotsav, I am sure will prove to be a real celebration of the spirit of Tribal Culture, Cuisine and Commerce. Pravir Krishna, MD, TRIFED thanked the guest.


    The Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu releasing a booklet, at the inauguration of the “Aadi Mahotsav”. The Union Minister for Tribal Affairs, Shri Jual Oram, the Minister of State for Tribal Affairs, Shri Sudarshan Bhagat are also seen.


    The Maohotsava : Showcasing Tribal Culture, Commerce & Cuisine :


    The festival will run for a fortnight through 30 th November 2017. The theme of the festival is: A Celebration of the Spirit of Tribal Culture, Cuisine and Commerce. The festival will feature exhibition-cum-sale of tribal handicrafts, art, paintings, fabric, jewellery and much more through 204 stalls.


    Over 750 tribal artisans and artists from over 25 States will be participating in the festival. A special feature of the festival is Tribal India cuisine, recreated and presented in delectable forms to suit urban tastes by special tribal chefs.


    An attractive stage has been raised at the venue to showcase tribal music and dance every evening from 6.30 pm to 8.30 pm. Nearly 350 artists from 20 States are expected to perform during the festival. Festivities and cultural programmes will also be organised at Central Park, Rajiv Chowk; Dilli Haat, Janakpuri and Handicrafts Bhawan, Baba Kharak Singh Marg between 16-19 November, 2017.


    Shopping, Dining & Fine Music


    The 15 days Mahotsav is expected have a footfall of over 1.00 lakh Delhiites. It promises to be a feast of shopping, exotic dining and fine music from Artists from all over the Country.


    The tribal textiles manufactured by Master tribal Craftsmen from Jammu & Kashmir in the North to Tamil Nadu in the South and from Gujarat in the East to Nagaland/Sikkim in the West will win the heart of Delhiites. The Traditional tribal jewelry, bamboo cane also promise to be the items of attraction.


    The Tribal handicrafts would be sold through 212 Stalls in the Dilli Haat, INA by tribal Artisans. 25 special tribal cuisines would be on display and sale during the fortnight and Delhites are welcome to sample the exotic Adi Vyanjan.


    A team of 350 tribal artists from all over the country will present excellent and choreographed dances, vocal and instrumental music. 4 rock bands from North East would be giving enthralling performances everyday in the evening from 5.30 P.M. to 8.30 P.M.


    In line with the national aspiration to go cashless, the tribal artisans will be accepting payment through credit/debit cards for which Point of Sale (POS) machines have been provided in each stall. A special training has been conducted by State Bank of India for smooth operation of this. The Mahotsav will display the rich digital commerce and e-commerce being promoted by Tribes India. All the 202 stalls will prefer and promote payments through credit cards.


    Backgrounder:


    As the name of this event Aadi Mahotsav suggests, it is the ‘ adi’ factor that is important about them. The Adivasi way of life is guided by primal truths, eternal values and a natural simplicity. The greatness of the tribes lies in this that they have managed to retain the primal skills, the natural simplicity. Their creations issue from the depths of time. This quality gives their arts and crafts a timeless appeal. The crudest tribal handicraft instantly touches a primal instinct in all of us. This is particularly true of tribal music and dance.


    The tribes of India have a wide range of handicrafts. These include handwoven cotton, wool and silk fabrics, woodcrafts, metal craft, terracotta, bead-work, masques and other objects. They also produce compelling paintings. It is true that the tribes did not develop these arts and handicrafts for the market. They developed them for their own captive use. But we all live in a changing world. Nobody can remain unaffected by these changes. Not even the tribes. Like all of us, the tribes too now need cash for sundry purposes. It is therefore important that their natural skills must be channelled to promote their sources of income. It is for this reason that the Government seeks to promote interaction between the tribal artisans and the mainstream designers from reputed design organizations. The idea is to expand the product range and designs. The synergy between these two can generate marketable products of art and handicraft for the top-end global market. Single items of bell-metal produced by the late Jaideo Baghel of Kondagaon in Bastar sold for as much as five lacs of rupees! This only points to the fact that on the one hand there are skills in the tribal pockets of India, and on the other hand there is high-end demand in our cities and in the international market.


    The need is to put two and two together for a win-win result. Events such as this Aadi Mahotsav are very important in this regard. The Government has formed the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (Trifed) for achieving this. Trifed is doing significant work in this direction and have now embraced e-commerce and digital platforms to take the business forward.


    TRIBES India proudly informs the signing of MOUs with Amazon, Snapdeal, Flipkart, PayTM and GEM, a Government of India Portal for e-commerce of the tribal products. Besides TRIBES India has also has its own e-com portal www.eshop.tribesindia.com .


    The Mahotsav is an effort to take tribal commerce to the next level of digital and electronic transactions. The Mahotsav apart from exotic handicrafts will also showcase the electronic and digital skills of the tribals as a special attraction.


    ****


    MKV/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1509909) Visitor Counter : 127
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil