      Ministry of Defence

      A seminar on ‘Cyber Security in the context of Indian Navy’ at New Delhi
      Posted On: 17 NOV 2017 1:26PM by PIB Delhi


    A seminar on ‘Cyber Security in the Context of Indian Navy’ was held on 17 November 2017 at Dr. DS Kothari Auditorium, DRDO Bhawan, New Delhi by Directorate of Information Warfare, Integrated Headquarters Ministry of Defence (Navy). Over 350 personnel attended the seminar which included officers and sailors from various directorates of IHQ MoD (Navy), Naval units in Delhi area and other Naval stations, officers from sister Services, civilian dignitaries and professionals from cyber security industry. In the inaugural session, Vice Admiral SN Ghormade AVSM, NM, Director General Naval Operations welcomed the gathering and presented the theme of the seminar. The Chief Guest of the event, Admiral Sunil Lanba PVSM, AVSM, ADC, Chief of the Naval Staff delivered the keynote address. In his address, he share d his thoughts on cyber security and the challenges faced by the Indian Navy in the domain. He also enunciated the importance of responsible usage of social media and smart devices. A special address was also delivered by Dr. Gulshan Rai, National Cyber Security Coordinator.


    The seminar saw distinguished speakers and practitioners from the Indian Navy sharing their perspectives on Cyber Systems related to Military viz. ‘Achieving Information Security for Military Embedded Systems’ and ‘Leveraging Cyber Operations for Information Superiority in the Network Centric Battlefield’. Speakers also deliberated upon issues such as ‘Cyber Security Challenges posed by Smart phones and IOT Devices’ and ‘Implications of Social Media on Operations Security’.


    The seminar provided a platform for interaction and sharing of knowledge and experience in Cyber security among the experts in the field. The seminar was of immense benefit to all the participants especially those who are directly involved with the cyber security of their respective organisations.


    DKS/GY

    
    
    (Release ID: 1509976) Visitor Counter : 323