      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley to leave on a two day official visit to Singapore tonight; Scheduled to meet the Singapore Prime Minister, Deputy Finance Minister and Finance Minister during his visit; To meet the Senior Fund Managers and key Financial Institutional Investors for making investment in the country .
      Posted On: 14 NOV 2017 12:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Finance Minister of India, Shri Arun Jaitley will leave on an official visit to Singapore tonight. He will be on two day visit to Singapore on 15th and 16th November, 2017. The Finance Minister will be accompanied by Shri Subhash Chandra Garg, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs (DEA),Ministry of Finance. During the visit, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will re-enforce close ties between India and Singapore building upon our shared history, rooted in strong commercial, culture and people-to-people links.


    On November 15, 2017, the Finance Minister will visit the Singapore Expo and deliver the Keynote Address at the Singapore Fintech Festival, a global event attracting over 10,000 participants. He will also pay a visit to the India Pavilion set- up at the Expo, showcasing India’s achievements in advancing financial technology, both within and outside the Government.


    On 16th November, the Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley will deliver the Keynote Address at Morgan Stanley Sixteenth (16th) Annual Asia Pacific Summit in Singapore on the topic of “India: Structural Reforms and Growth Path Ahead". As part of the Summit, Shri Jaitley will meet the senior management of Morgan Stanley, and also address a gathering of Senior Fund Managers and key Financial Institutional Investors.


    During the visit, the Finance Minister of India, Shri Arun Jaitley will meet the Deputy Prime Minister (DPM) of Singapore, Mr Tharman Shanmugaratnam to discuss the bilateral issues with him. He will also discuss investment and other issues with his Singapore counterpart and the Finance Minister Mr Heng Swee Keat.


    During the visit, the Finance Minister of India, Shri Arun Jaitley is scheduled to meet the Prime Minister of Singapore, Mr Lee Hsien Loong.


    An Investors’ Roundtable is being organised by the Ministry of Finance, Govt of India and the Indian High Commission in Singapore to showcase to foreign investors slew of investor friendly reforms undertaken by the Government of India and also to understand their ideas and suggestions about ramping-up investments in India. The Roundtable will be co-chaired by Shri Subhash Chandra Garg, Secretary DEA; and Ms Tan Ching Yee, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Government of Singapore. The Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will also address the investors in the beginning. The participants in the Investors’ Roundtable include Senior Executives of Leading Institutional Investors and Business Houses in Singapore, who control significant investments globally and have either existing investments in India, or are contemplating such investments in the country in the near future.


    During the two day official visit starting tomorrow, the Finance Minister of India, Shri Arun Jaitley will also have meetings with CEOs of GIC, the Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF) of Government of Singapore, the Chairman of Development Bank of Singapore (DBS), CEO of Singapore Airlines, Chairman of Blackstone Asia Pacific and CEO of Singapore Stock Exchange among others.


    During the visit, the Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley will also interact with the Chairman and Board of Directors of Temasek, a leading investment company, headquartered in Singapore.


    The Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley will return to New Delhi late in evening of November 16, 2017 after completion of his two day visit to Singapore.


    *****


    DSM/SBS/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1509389) Visitor Counter : 90