      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Water storage level of 91 major reservoirs of the Country goes down by One Percent
      Posted On: 16 NOV 2017 5:15PM by PIB Delhi


        The water storage available in 91 major reservoirs of the country for the week ending on November 16, 2017 was 103.527 BCM, which is 66% of total storage capacity of these reservoirs. This percentage was at 67 for the week ending on November 09, 2017. The level of water storage in the week ending on November 16, 2017 was 96% of the storage of corresponding period of last year and 96% of storage of average of last ten years.


        The total storage capacity of these 91 reservoirs is 157.799 BCM which is about 62% of the total storage capacity of 253.388 BCM which is estimated to have been created in the country. 37 Reservoirs out of these 91 have hydropower benefit with installed capacity of more than 60 MW.


        REGION WISE STORAGE STATUS:-


        NORTHERN REGION


        The northern region includes States of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. There are six reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.01 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 12.45 BCM which is 69% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 62% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 70% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year but is less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


        EASTERN REGION


        The Eastern region includes States of Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Tripura. There are 15 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.83 BCM. As per Reservoir Storage Bulletin dated 16.11.2017, the total live storage available in these reservoirs is 14.54 BCM which is 77% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 83% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 74% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the corresponding period of last year but is better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


        WESTERN REGION


        The Western region includes States of Gujarat and Maharashtra. There are 27 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 27.07 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 19.88 BCM which is 73% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 82% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 75% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the storage of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


        CENTRAL REGION


        The Central region includes States of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. There are 12 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 42.30 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 25.03 BCM which is 59% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 86% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 66% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the storage of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


        SOUTHERN REGION


        The Southern region includes States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, AP&TG(2combined projects in both states) Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. There are 31 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 51.59 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 31.63 BCM which is 61% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 43% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 65% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year but is less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


        States having better storage than last year for corresponding period are Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Tripura, Uttarakhand, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states), Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. States having equal storage than last year for corresponding period is Punjab and Maharashtra. States having lesser storage than last year for corresponding period are Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Odisha, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana.


        ****


        Samir/Sudhir/IA/ JK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1509814) Visitor Counter : 59