      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      WCD Ministry to celebrate Child Rights Week by hosting an inter CCI Festival “Hausala 2017” between 16th to 20th November
      Posted On: 11 NOV 2017 8:07PM by PIB Delhi


      The Ministry of Women and Child Development will celebrate the Child Rights Week (Hausla 2017) from 16 th to 20 th November, 2017. The country celebrates the Children’s Day on 14 th November and the International Child Rights Day is celebrated on 20 th November every year. The period between the two important events will be celebrated as Child Rights Week by WCD Ministry by hosting an Inter CCI Festival for the children who reside in Child Care Institutions (CCIs).


       1. commemoration of the festival “Hausala 2017” will provide an occasion to showcase the talents of children from CCIs from various child care institutions across the country and provide them with a space to express their dreams and aspiration. Children will be participating in various events like Bal Sansad, painting competition, athletics meet, football, chess competition and speech writing. The following events are proposed to be organized:

       1. Bal Sandad on 16 th November 2017: The National Policy for Children 2013 and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015 endorse the rights of the children to participate in issues that affect them. Children have the right to express their views and be involved actively in decision-making at different levels in matters that concern them. They are today’s citizens, can act as leaders now and in the future. Keeping the above in mind, a Bal Sansad will be organized in which children from CCIs from all States/UTs will participate. A total of 36 children in the age group of 14-18 years have been invited from States/UTs to participate in the programme. An orientation workshop will be organized at NIPCCD with children in the afternoon of 15th November, 2017 on needs and rights of children. Children will be prepared to identify the issues pertaining to their rights which affects them and also give their suggestions. The Bal Sansad will be held on 16th November, 2017 at CSOI, New Delhi.

      A Summary of discussions and suggestions given by children may to be forwarded to relevant Ministries and Departments of GoI later on.

       1. Painting Competition on 16th November 2017: Children, generally use different ways of expressing themselves and make meaning out of the world around them. Drawing and painting are powerful tools used to enhance children’s communication skills. With this background in consideration, a painting competition is being organized by the Ministry of Women and Child Development on 17th November, 2017 for selected children (36) from all the Child Care Institutions across the country at CSOI. Before the painting competition, an explorative orientation workshop will be organized for the children facilitated by artists who have agreed to volunteer for this event. The workshop will be organized to sensitize the children that drawing can be used as a medium to express feelings and emotions. The facilitators will help children and make it an enjoyable experience for them. The paintings will be judged by a panel of three judges.

       1. Athletics Meet, Chess Competition and Football Matches on 19-20th November 2017: A happy childhood is synonymous with right to play. Sports activities not only bring out the physical abilities in children, it also encourages their sprit to win over challenges and even be prepared to accept defeat with grace. The ministry is organising athletics meet (100 meters race, 100 x 4 meter relay race, long jump, high jump), chess competition and football matches for boys and girls from CCIs. The events will be organized at Thyagaraj Stadium, New Delhi.


      To encourage children, Mr. Virendra Sahwag (Cricketer), Mr. Gautam Gambhir (Cricketer) and Ms. Mithali Raj (Cricketer) have been be invited on 20 th November 2017 to take part in the prize distribution function.

       1. Speech Writing: All States/UTs have been requested to hold speech writing competitions within children of CCIs. The first three speeches will be forwarded to the Ministry and the compilation of speeches will be published as a booklet by the Ministry, supported by UNICEF. The booklet will be released on 20 th November 2017 during the concluding ceremony.

       1. The Concluding Ceremony on 20 th November 2017: The week-long celebration of child rights will culminate through the concluding ceremony which will be organized on 20 th November (evening) at Pravasi Bhartiya Kendra, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi. The programme will include release of compilation of speeches and guidelines of UNNATI scheme and presentation of Best State Team Award based on performance during Hausla 2017 as well as cultural programme presented by children of CCIs.


      Child Reporters from street children’s news magazine “Balaknama” will cover the entire event and publish it in their magazine, with due approval of the content from Ministry.


      CIF, CARA and NIPCCD are assisting the Ministry in organising the events. UNICEF will be supporting the Ministry in publishing the compiled speeches in the form of a booklet.


      *****


      NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1509110) Visitor Counter : 243
    
    
    
    
    

1.