      President's Secretariat

      President of India in Jharkhand; addresses foundation day celebrations of the state
      Posted On: 15 NOV 2017 5:44PM by PIB Delhi

      The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, graced and addressed the foundation day anniversary celebrations of Jharkhand state today (November 15, 2017) in Ranchi. He also inaugurated or laid foundation stones of various welfare and developmental projects on the occasion.

        Addressing the gathering, the President congratulated the people of Jharkhand on the 17 th anniversary of the formation of the State. He said that having seen and felt the enthusiasm of the people present at the foundation day celebrations, he truly appreciated the vision of former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who decided to establish the state of Jharkhand.


        The President paid tributes to illustrious heroes of Jharkhand, including the freedom fighter Birsa Munda, whose birth anniversary was also celebrated today, Sido-Kanhu, Chand-Bhairav, Tilka Manjhi, Nilambar-Pitambar, and Jaipal Singh Munda, 1928 Olympic hockey captain and former MP. He said they devoted their lives to the creation of a society based on equality and justice. We should all take a pledge to build a nation and build a Jharkhand, the President said, where every person will experience equality and prosperity as per the dreams of Birsa Munda.


        The President said nature had blessed Jharkhand with 40 per cent of the country’s mineral resources. This provides immense opportunity for the development of industry. He expressed happiness that Jharkhand was performing well and had the second-highest growth rate among states of the country. In the field of labour reforms, it had topped the list for the past two years. From a low rank in terms of 'Ease of Doing Business' in 2014, Jharkhand is now counted as among the best states.


        Earlier, the President commenced his engagements in Ranchi by paying respects before the statue of ‘Dharti Aba’ Birsa Munda.


        Later in the day, the President received the first copy of the Hindi translation of Paramhansa Yogananda’s book ‘God Talks with Arjuna - The Bhagavad Gita’ in Ranchi. He received the copy from Smt Draupadi Murmu, the Governor of Jharkhand, who formally released the book.


        Speaking on the occasion, the President congratulated Yogoda Satsanga Society and those associated with it for their commendable contribution in spreading the message of yoga all over the world. He also appreciated the service of the Society’s ashrams and meditation centres in social welfare activities.


        Click here for the Text of speeches of the President 1st occasions.


        Click here for the Text of speeches of the President 2nd occasions.


        ***


        AKT/NT/VK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1509634) Visitor Counter : 184
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil