      President's Secretariat

      Faculty and course members of 57th NDC course call on the President
      Posted On: 14 NOV 2017 6:40PM by PIB Delhi


        The faculty and course members of 57 th NDC course, called on the President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, today (November 14, 2017) at Rashtrapati Bhavan.


        Speaking on the occasion, the President said we live in a challenging and dynamic global environment. The very concept of security and defence is changing before our eyes. No longer is it limited to territorial integrity. Today, the idea of security incorporates economic and energy security, as well as concerns about food, health and the environment. The future of security is as much about preventing nuclear proliferation as about the integrity of the Internet and of data protection.


        The President said each of these areas requires specialisation and analysis. And yet, they are inter-linked. They demand an integrated approach from those responsible for our security – as well as a process of constant learning and knowledge updating.


        The President said India and its neighbourhood – and the broader Asian continent – are the location of multiple security threats and risks that are of global significance. Terrorism and violent extremism are common challenges. These challenges are both state-based and asymmetrical. Also, with globalisation and the technology revolution, Asia has emerged as the centre of the 21 st century economy. Securing this economic rise and checking attempts to destabilise it will be an important task in the years ahead. Threats will come in all domains – from the maritime space to cyberspace.


        The President said this makes it important to promote a “strategic culture” in India and in all the partner countries represented at the NDC course. And he was confident that NDC alumni would contribute to strengthening an understanding of the multi-dimensional approach to security in the years to come.


        ***


        Click here for the text of President


        AKT/SH/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1509504) Visitor Counter : 81
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil