      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh to leave for Russia tomorrow
      Posted On: 25 NOV 2017 8:42PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh will be leaving tomorrow on a three-day visit to Russia from 27th-29th November, 2017.
    
    During his visit, the Union Home Minister will hold discussions with Mr. Vladimir Kolokoltsev, Minister for Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation and other senior Russian leadership. The discussions would cover the entire gamut of bilateral, regional and international matters of mutual interest.
    
    Union Home Minister, Shri Rajnath Singh is likely to sign an Agreement on Cooperation between Ministry of Home Affairs, India and Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation. He will also sign a Joint Action Plan between the Narcotics Control Bureau, MHA and Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation. The signing of a comprehensive security agreement on cooperation in combating terrorism and organized crime with the Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation would reinforce the relationship between India and Russia through exchange and sharing of information, expertise, best practices and would help in curbing terrorism and enhancing security in the region.
    
    Shri Rajnath Singh will also hold meetings with Mr Nikolai Patrushev, Secretary, Security Council of the Russian Federation, Mr. Vladimir Puchkov, Minister of Civil Defence, Emergency Situations and Disaster Relief of the Russian Federation and Mr. Alexander Bortnikov, Director, Federal Security Service of Russia. He will pay a visit to the National Crisis Management Centre (EMERCOM) under the Ministry of Situations.
    
    As both the countries have long history of close cooperation on matters of shared security concerns, this visit will provide an opportunity to further cement and strengthen the mutually beneficial bilateral ties between both the countries.

    ******


    
    
    KSD/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510871) Visitor Counter : 193