      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Aadi Mahotsav will promote Tribal Economy, Culture and Cuisine, says Shri Sudarshan Bhagat
      
      Language and Culture of Tribals with very low population should be preserved on priority, says Shri Kiren Rijiju

      Posted On: 17 NOV 2017 7:08PM by PIB Delhi

    Ministry of Tribal Affairs is organizing Aadi Mahotsav at Dilli Haat, INA, New Delhi till 30 November, 2017. The theme of Aadi Mahotsav is ‘A Celebration of the Spirit of Tribal Culture, Cuisine and Commerce’. The genuine and authentic Tribal Handicrafts, Mouth-watering and Delectable Tribal Cuisine, Colorful and Vibrant Tribal Dance and Fine Music are being showcased in the Mahotsav.
    
    Shri Sudarshan Bhagat, Union Minister of State for Tribal Affairs and Shri Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs was the Chief Guest at the Aadi Mahotsav celebrated at Central Park, Rajiv Chowk and Dilli Haat, INA respectively.
    
    Shri Sudarshan Bhagat said that Ministry of Tribal Affairs is organizing Aadi Mahotsav to promote Tribal Economy, Culture and Cuisine. In this Mahotsav 750 Artisans all over India are participating and selling their goods.
    
    Shri Kiren Rijiju said that culture and language of the tribals have to be preserved especially those tribals with very low population. He also congratulated Ministry of Tribal Affairs and TRIFED for successful organizing of this grand Mahotsav.
    
    The cultural programme is a part of the festival and attractive fine tribal music, colorful and vibrant dances will be there every evening from 5:30 pm to 8:30 pm. Apart from the cultural programme, the Genuine, Authentic Tribal Handicrafts of excellent quality have been showcased for a feast of shopping.
    
    The delectable varieties of Cuisine from different States are prepared by eminent tribal Chef and served. People of Delhi are known food-lovers and the foodies will have grand gala time enjoying mouth-watering dishes from different States of India
    
    Sh. Kamal Singh, Vice Chairman of TRIFED was the Chief Guest for the cultural programme at Aadi Mahotsav today at Dilli Haat, Janakpuri. The Senior Officers of TRIFED also graced the occasion.

    *****


    
    
    MKV/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510072) Visitor Counter : 94