      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Sushant Singh Rajput & Shekhar Kapur hosts an engaging Master-class at IFFI 2017.
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2017 9:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Padma Shri, BAFTA and National Award winner Shekhar Kapur along with Sushant Singh Rajput, Actor hosted an engaging and interactive master-class at the 48 th International Film Festival of India on Day 7 at IFFI 2017.


    Having made a spectacular directorial debut in 1983 with the multi-award winning Masoom, Shekhar gained international recognition with the 1994 Bollywood film Bandit Queen, for which he won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Hindi, Filmfare Critics Award for Best Movie and Best Direction for that year. It was premiered in the Directors Fortnight section of the 1994 Cannes Film Festival and was screened at the Edinburgh Film Festival.


    From questions ranging from learning the various aspects of filmmaking right from the scripting stage to eventually putting up the final product together on the big screen and collaborating in the near future, the actor and filmmaker thoroughly entertained the crowd comprising of filmmakers, aspiring actors and his fans. The popular filmmaker with a great sense of humour had the crowd in splits with his hilarious repartees as he spoke on several aspects related to his journey and evolution as a filmmaker.


    Talking about his camaraderie with Sushant Singh Rajput, Shekhar Kapur said, “Sushant is a brilliant actor and has a good understanding of cinema. We share a great rapport and always keep discussing stories with each other and working together on a movie project.”


    Sushant, who has always pushed boundaries and taken risks every step of the way through the course of his career, started the conversation by asking challenging questions to the filmmaker who he deeply admires and respects.


    Talking about his participation in the master-class Sushant added, “I’ve come here to listen to the master Shekhar Kapur like everyone present here and I have certain questions to ask him. I started off a science student but my interest always lied in performing arts. I was sort of confused in my head and started looking for answers. I'm really proud to be part of the engaging session and grateful to Shekhar Kapur for answering all my questions.”


    The 48th Edition of IFFI is being held from the 20th to 28th of November, 2017 in the beach state of Goa


    ************


    PIB IFFI 2017/ No.40

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510925) Visitor Counter : 233