      Vice President's Secretariat

      Technology has to be used for betterment of humanity: Vice President
      Interacts with Officer Trainees of Indian Telecom Service 2015 Batch

      Posted On: 27 NOV 2017 2:22PM by PIB Delhi

      The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that the technology has to be used for the betterment of humanity. He was interacting with the Officer Trainees of Indian Telecom Service 2015 Batch who are undergoing Induction Training at National Telecommunications Institute for Policy Research, Innovations & Training (NTIPRIT) at Ghaziabad, here today. The Union Minister for Electronics & Information Technology and Law & Justice, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


      The Vice President said that the future of our nation is Digital India and we must equip ourselves to meet the aspirations of the people. He further said that technology advancement should lead to online services which are free from delays and misuse. The time has come for us to go online, otherwise we will remain in line, he added.


      The Vice President said that the Government is taking up several initiatives like Stand-up India, Start-up India, Digital India, Incubation, Innovation for the unemployed youth of this country. We must make use of these programmes initiated by the Government and prove that we are not job seekers, but job givers. The world has become smart and everyone is living in LPG - Liberalization, Privatization and Globalization, he added.


      The Vice President asked the Trainees to come out with out-of-box ideas and he has referred the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi for bringing an idea to neem-coat the urea to arrest misuse of it. He further referred the government's initiatives of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), Jan Aadhar Money (JAM) which were helpful in transferring scholarships, pensions, compensations etc. without delay and pilferage. Whatever the technology advancement we have, finally that must help the humanity, he added.


      The Vice President wished the Trainees all the very best in their future.


      ***


      KSD/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510965) Visitor Counter : 122