      President's Secretariat

      Address by the Hon’ble President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind on the occasion of presentation of Silver Trumpet and Trumpet Banner to the President’s Bodyguard (PBG)
      Posted On: 17 NOV 2017 6:47PM by PIB Delhi


        1. It gives me great pleasure to present to you a Silver Trumpet with my Trumpet Banner. I congratulate you for your immaculate turnout and the impressive military bearing you have displayed today. As my personal troops, you have lived up to the highest standards of professional excellence and distinguished service to our country. You have lived up to your stirring motto, which is simply: “Bharat Mata ki Jai!”


        2. The President’s Bodyguard has a long history going back to 1773. Raised as the Viceroy’s Bodyguard, it is the oldest regiment in the Indian Army. It was renamed the President’s Bodyguard on January 27, 1950, the day after we became a Republic.


        3. You comprise the only regiment in the Indian Army that is fully trained as horsemen, paratroopers, tank-men, and in ceremonial duties. This gives you a special position in our Armed Forces. Your patriotism and valour have won you the affection and gratitude of our fellow citizens.


        4. It is a matter of pride that you, the warriors of my Bodyguard, have served with distinction during our country’s major wars, as well as with the Indian Peace-Keeping Force in Sri Lanka and on the icy heights of the Siachen Glacier. You have also been deployed overseas as part of United Nations Peace-Keeping Missions.


        5. I am delighted to have such impressive troops as my personal Bodyguard. You showcase our military might, whether on Republic Day or Beating the Retreat, at state functions or investiture ceremonies. Heads of State from other countries are very impressed by the ceremonial reception you give them.


        6. On this happy day, I convey my greetings to Colonel Bommanda [ बोमान्डा ] Dhiraj Chengappa, the Commandant of the President’s Bodyguard, and to the other Officers, JCOs and ranks. I am glad to note that former Commandants, Officers, JCOs and other ranks, who have served with the Bodyguard earlier – as well as family members of those who are serving or have served in the President’s Bodyguard – are present here today. My warm greetings and best wishes to all of you!


        Jai Hind!


        ***


        AKT/SH/VK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1510065) Visitor Counter : 40