      Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs

      Winter Session of Parliament to be from December 15, 2017 to January 5, 2018
      Posted On: 24 NOV 2017 1:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs (CCPA) today recommended convening of Winter Session of Parliament this year from December 15, 2017 to January 5, 2018, subject to exigencies of government business. This was informed by the Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Shri Ananthkumar to media persons after the meeting of CCPA.


    Shri Ananthkumar further stated that the ensuing Winter Session will have a total of 14 sittings over a duration of 22 days.


    The meeting was chaired by Union Minister for Home Affairs Shri Rajnath Singh to discuss legislative agenda for the coming session of Parliament.


    Talking to media persons, Shri Ananthkumar noted that it is not unprecedented that the schedule of the Parliament Session has been decided so as to avoid any overlap with the Assembly Elections in the States. This practice has been followed on many occasions by different Governments in the past. Shri Ananthkumar appealed to all Political Parties for fruitful and constructive discussions on important Bills and ensure smooth functioning of both the Houses of the Parliament.


    Answering a question on Triple Talaq & the National Commission for Backward Classes, Shri Ananthkumar stated that it is a strong desire of the people of India that Parliament should legislate on these two important issues and the Government is committed to respond to this desire.


    Three Bills are to be taken up in the coming Winter session to replace three Ordinances viz.,


    1. The Goods & Services Tax (Compensation to States) Ordinance, 2017 (promulgated on 02.09.17)


    2. Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017


    3. Indian Forest (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017


    Parliament will also discuss the Supplementary Demands for Grants in this Winter Session.


    *****


    
    VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510733) Visitor Counter : 270
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati