      Ministry of Defence

      Navy Health Camp organised at Aurangabad (Distt Palwal) as part of Navy Week 2017 Celebrations
      Posted On: 18 NOV 2017 3:54PM by PIB Delhi

      As a part of Navy Week celebrations, Indian Navy is conducting a free health camp for the general public from 18 to 20 November 2017 at Aurangabad, Palwal District, Haryana. Through this outreach programme, the Indian Navy aims to bring about awareness in the general public about the role and task of the Navy and also encourage youngsters to consider Navy as a career.

        The Medical Camp was inaugurated by Admiral Sunil Lanba, PVSM, AVSM, ADC, Chief of the Naval Staff in an impressive function at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Aurangabad on 18 November 2017. Surgeon Vice Admiral AA Pawar, VSM, PHS, Director General Medical Services (Navy) welcomed the dignitaries and the gathering. Smt. Anju Chaudhary, Addl DC, Palwal, Sh. Suresh Chahal SDM, Palwal & Sh. Hardeep Singh Sarpanch of the village were present at the function. Surgeon Commodore Shankar Narayan, VSM Principal Director Medical Services (HS) delivered the vote of thanks.


        After the inaugural function, the Chief Guest Admiral Sunil Lanba, PVSM, AVSM, ADC visited the out-patient departments and interacted with the medical staff consisting of doctors, nursing officers and medical technicians. Subsequently, in an extremely well attended media interaction programme, Admiral Lanba interacted with the media personnel of both electronic and print media.


        As a prelude to the camp, a mobile laboratory with facilities to carry out blood investigations was established at three villages, viz., Deeghot on 11 November 2017, Bamikhera on 12 November 2017 and at Aurangabad on 13 and 14 November 2017. Nearly 600 people were benefited by the mobile laboratory.


        A medical team consisting of specialists, super-specialists and para-medical staff from the premier Naval Hospitals INHS Asvini at Mumbai and INHS Kalyani at Visakhapatnam has been instrumental in the conduct of the camp. The specialists will conduct out-patient consultation for medical, surgical, gynaecology, paediatric, eye, ENT, skin and cardiology ailments. The camp is supported by a dental chair for treating minor dental ailments and by laboratory, ultrasonography, echocardiography and pharmacy facilities. The camp also has facilities to screen for cancer cervix and cancer breast in women.


        Adm. Sunil Lanba CNS at the Naval Health Camp Organised as a Navy Week 2017


        *****


        DKS/GY 82/17

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510124) Visitor Counter : 71