      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Open Forum Discussion on ‘Film making in changing scenario, Focus on Technology, Audience, Distribution, Economics, and Screening facility’
      Posted On: 23 NOV 2017 5:09PM by PIB Delhi


    International Film Festival of India (IFFI) is the biggest platform for young filmmakers, said Dr Shreyans Jain, Film-maker. Dr Jain was speaking at Open Forum organized by Federation of Film Socities of India in IFFI at Goa today. Bharat Mirle and N. Vidyasankar from Karnataka, Luong Dinh Dung from Vietnam were also participated in the Open Forum.


    “Film is the medium which affects masses and classes”, said Dr Shreyans Jain. Sharing his experience about film making, he said that now he is beginner in film making field. So far he made two short films and two feature films. Dr Jain is now working on Marathi Film “Sai Aalo Payi Payi ” (story about devotes of Saibaba).


    Luong Dinh Dung from Vietnam, who is a Director and Producer of film ‘Father and Son’, expressed happiness over the response to the film in IFFI. He said that it is very difficult for an independent filmmaker to make film in Vietnam. That is one of the reasons we bring the film here in IFFI, he said. It took ten years to make ‘Father and Son’, he told.


    N. Vidyasankar, Festival Director, Bengaluru International Film Festival told that modern technology changed the scenario, but still we need modern technology driven culture. Globally film infrastructure changed very drastically. When Indian Film goes abroad, the first thing that comes is technological values. In our country, we need to change the educational system. Need to make children learn of technology about Cinema, he said. Creation and film construction is very important, he further said.


    Bharat Mirale, Filmmaker from Karnataka, said that In International Film Festival of India ‘Film-Bazar’ is a great exposure to young film makers. Now technology is playing vital role in promoting films. Technology change is for the betterment of films, he said. People come to know in detail about the films through various technological platforms. Though, technological scenario is changing a lot economics of the film remains the main concern, he said.


    ***********


    PIB IFFI 2017/ No.17

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510630) Visitor Counter : 206