      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Community awareness training play a pivot role in disaster risk mitigation, says Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir
      
      
      MoS (Home) emphasizes that planned approach and a well-defined strategy is essential for Disaster Risk Mitigation And Management

      Posted On: 23 NOV 2017 4:02PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir has said Community awareness training plays a pivotal role in Disaster Risk Mitigation. He was addressing the school children at a programme on ‘Initiative for Awareness and Management of Disaster’ here today. He said the youth, including students in schools and colleges, play a vital role by being trained and in creating awareness about the proactive response to Disaster Management and risk mitigation. He said response to a threatening disaster situation requires a planned approach and a well-defined strategy. He said that during the time of disaster, which can be in the form of natural calamity or nuclear, biological, radiological and chemical disasters, the community awareness ensures that the arising emergent situation is addressed in a quick, efficient and effective manner.


    Emphasizing on the importance of quality and holistic training in academic institutions, he said that students can be Champions and Leaders of the society by learning the quintessential basics of Disaster Risk Reduction and Risk Mitigation, Disaster Resilience Techniques and Technology. He underlined the need to be technologically well-versed and be knowledge-savvy on latest technology to mitigate disaster situation. He said that building construction in schools and colleges should be resistant to disasters.


    Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir said that training of students in schools should be provided equal attention as normal education academic curriculum, sports and cultural activities along with necessary practical sessions to augment the learning process. He emphasized that ‘School Safety Programme’ should promote culture of disaster management in day-to-day curricula of educational institutions. He said that ‘word of mouth’ to parents and relatives of students can create awareness among the stakeholders and people in a holistic manner.


    Commending the Governmental organizations such as National Disaster Response Force and Border Security Force (BSF) for their yeoman work in this sector of Disaster Management, the Minister said that the need of the hour is community awareness cum training programs for better Management and Capacity Building.


    *****


    KSD/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510617) Visitor Counter : 156
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati