      Ministry of Defence

      Annual Day Celebration in AFGJI
      Posted On: 18 NOV 2017 4:55PM by PIB Delhi


        Air Force Golden Jubilee Institute celebrated its 32nd Annual Day on 18th November 2017 in The Air Force Auditorium, Subroto Park at 1030 hrs. The Chief Guest for the occasion was Air Marshal HN Bhagwat AVSM VM, Air Officer-in-Charge Administration, Indian Air Force. Mrs Shubhada Bhagwat graciously gave away the trophies and prizes to the exceptional achievers. The School Head girl welcomed all the dignitaries and parents. The Principal, Mrs Poonam S Rampal presented the annual school report highlighting the achievements of the students and spoke about the year-round activities conducted in the school. A PowerPoint presentation was shown along with it. The foyer of the auditorium was decorated with an eye-catching ‘Rangoli’ and installations which showcased the art and cultural heritage of our country.


        The theme of the cultural programme was ‘Saare Jahan Se Achha...’ (A Musical Odyssey). The invocation Qawwali ‘Rang’ which was a tribute to Hazrat Nizamudin Auliya was skilfully presented by the students of our school choir ‘Ekyataan’. It was followed by a dance-drama based on the song ‘Saare Jahan Se Achha’ composed by Muhammad Iqbal. The play was an amalgamation of various elements such as the iconic evolution of alphabets and language, the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb, the origin of Yoga, the grandeur of civilisation of the Mauryan empire, the propagation of Buddhism by Ashoka and how secularism acts as the binding fabric of the Indian society. The essence of the drama revolved around the strength possessed by our country’s unity, despite being tremendously diverse.


        The Chief Guest, Air Marshal HN Bhagwat AVSM VM, Air Officer-in-Charge Administration, Indian Air Force praised the efforts of the Principal, staff and students for putting up a remarkable show and taking the institution to glorious heights. The show was put up by a combined effort of around 250 students under the support and guidance of their teachers. It was appreciated by all.


        The Chief Guest Air Marshal HN Bhagwat Air Officer-in-Charge Administration, Indian Air Force witnessing annual day celebrations of AFGJI


        Group Photograph of award winner AFGJI on annual day celebrations at AF Auditorium Subroto Park


        ***


        AB/DKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510126) Visitor Counter : 46