      Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)

      Cabinet approves expansion of umbrella scheme "Mission For Protection And Empowerment For Women" and introducing a new scheme ' Pradhan Mantri Mahila Shakti Kendra'
      Posted On: 22 NOV 2017 4:07PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for expansion of the schemes of Ministry of Women and Child Development under Umbrella Scheme "Mission for Protection and Empowerment for Women" for a period 2017-18 to 2019-20. CCEA has also given approval to the new scheme called ‘Pradhan Mantri Mahila Shakti Kendra', which will empower rural women through community participation to create an environment in which they realize their full potential. Expansion under Beti Bachao Beti Padhao has also been approved based on the successful implementation in 161 districts.


    The financial outlay during 2017-18 to 2019-20 will be Rs.3,636.85 crore with a Central Share of approximately Rs.3,084.96 crore.


    Benefits of the Scheme:


    The approved sub-schemes are social sector welfare schemes especially for care, protection and development of women. It will also aim at improvement in declining Child Sex Ratio; ensuring survival. & protection of the girl child; ensuring her education, and empowering her to fulfil her potential. It will provide an interface for rural women to approach the government for availing their entitlements and for empowering them through training and capacity building. Student volunteers will encourage the spirit of voluntary community service and gender equality. These students will serve "agents of change" and have a lasting impact on their communities and the nation.


    Major activities of the Umbrella Scheme:


    The new scheme "Pradhan Mantri Mahila Shakti Kendra (PMMSK)" is envisaged to work at various levels. While, National level (domain based knowledge support) and State level (State Resource Centre for Women) structures will provide technical support to the respective government on issues related to women, the District and Block level Centres will provide support to PMMSK and also give a foothold to BBBP in 640 districts to be covered in a phased manner.


    Community engagement through Student Volunteers is envisioned in 115 most backward districts as part of the PMMSK Block level initiatives. Student volunteers will play an instrumental role in awareness generation regarding various important government schemes/ programmes as well as social issues. More than 3 lakh student volunteers from local colleges will be engaged in this process, while association with NSS/NCC cadre students will also be an option for contributing to nation building as responsible citizens. This will provide an opportunity to Student Volunteers to participate in the development process by bringing change in their own communities and ensuring that women are not left behind and are equal partners in India's progress.


    The outcome based activities of student volunteers will be monitored through web based system. On completion, certificates for community service, will be displayed on national portal for verification and can also be used as resource /asset for the participating students in future.


    Expansion and intensification of efforts have also been approved for Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) through sustained nation-wide Advocacy and Media Campaign in 640 districts and focused multi-sectoral action .in selected 405 districts. All low CSR districts shall be taken up in the first year itself under BBBP. To provide support to working women 190 more Working Women Hostels to accommodate approximately 19,000 additional working women will be set up. Additional Swadhar Grehs have been approved to provide relief and rehabilitation of approximately 26,000 beneficiaries.


    To provide comprehensive support to women affected by violence, One Stop Centres (OSCs) will be established in 150 additional districts during the period. These one stop Centres will be linked with women helpline and will provide 24 hour emergency and non-emergency response to women affected by violence both in public and private space across the country. A unique initiative involving engagement of Manila Police Volunteers (MPVs) on a voluntary basis in States/UTs will. also be done to create public-police interface, which will be expanded to 65 districts covering all States /UTs.


    Monitoring and Evaluation of the Scheme:


    One common Task Force shall be created at National, State and district level for planning, reviewing and monitoring all the sub-schemes in this Umbrella, with the objective of ensuring convergence of action and cost efficiency. Every scheme shall have a set of clear, focussed target set forth in the guidelines, aligned with SDGs. Mechanism for monitoring of outcome based indicators for all the sub-schemes as suggested by NITI Aayog will be put in place. The schemes will be implemented through the States/UTs and Implementing Agencies. All the sub-schemes have inbuilt monitoring structure at the Central Level, State, District and Block level.


    *****


    AKT/VBA/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510451) Visitor Counter : 742