      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Training forms an essential component for capacity building in the security sector, says Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir
      MoS (Home) exhorts the public and private sector to work in synergy to learn from each other’s best practices for better safety and security of the country

      Posted On: 23 NOV 2017 6:36PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir has said that Training and Technological Knowledge Management forms an essential component of capacity building in the security sector. He exhorted the public and private sector to work in synergy and learn from each other’s best practices for better safety and security of the country. He was addressing the inaugural session of the 27th Global Conclave organized by the International Institute of Security and Safety Management here today. The session deliberated on varied aspects related to Safety and Security in the contemporary digital era.


    Shri Ahir said that the training deficit of security agencies and officials can be bridged by ensuring a well-defined technologically versatile training infrastructure. He said that the security sector is facing new challenges which need to be tackled with better and efficient knowledge management techniques and tools. He said technological creativity and innovation are leading to new products in this sector. He said that the technological knowhow with proper training is a quintessential need of the hour. With the development of digital infrastructure, he said the security sector has donned a modern façade with upgraded electronic security gadgets and equipments such as Electronic Surveillance equipments, CCTV cameras and Cyber-security infrastructure with digital security. He commended the public and private Security agencies, Intelligence agencies, CAPFs and Security Forces for attributing high priority to learning new technological security knowhow.


    The Minister said that there is a need to elevate the traditional training on security to high-technology driven modern practical approach. He emphasized that both public and private sector should work in synergy for making Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s initiative of ‘Start-up India and Stand-up India’ by exploring new opportunities of collaboration in the security value chain. He said providing entrepreneurial and employment opportunity is the priority of the Government. He further said that industry, academia and government sector need to collaborate for better coordination and developing and learning best practices for addressing security and safety challenges.


    Appreciating the suggestions provided by eminent speakers present on the occasion on amendment of the Security Act to reflect the challenges of digital era, Shri Ahir said that adherence by law enforcement agencies on security is the basis for ensuring law and order. At the same time, he said, the security apparatus needs to be sensitive to human rights and people’s needs. The minister said that there is a growing demand for Centers of excellence for training and better education on safety and security aspects. He also said that suggestions provided regarding taxation (GST) on security equipments will be communicated to the GST Council and Ministry officials for their analysis.


    Shri Ahir exhorted the stakeholders including the industry, business community and security agencies to come up with suggestions based on their deliberations in the coming two days of the conclave. He said the security issues have attained a national priority as proper safety and security is essential for the growth and development of the country reflected in its GDP (Gross Domestic Product) and investor confidence in Indian Industrial Sector. He said that industry has to step up its role in Research and Development (R&D) and set new benchmarks for enhancing the security standards of the existing infrastructure. He said that, whether it is Internal Security of the country or better Border Management, having a robust security apparatus is essential to tackle insurgency, infiltration and trafficking issues. The Minister further said that security officers need to be physically strong as well as they should demonstrate acumen to assimilate technological advancements in their regular day-to-day work for better utilization of technology.


    *****


    KSD/SB/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510652) Visitor Counter : 101