      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Health Ministry wins Bronze Medal at the India International Trade Fair 2017 for its creative and informative display
      
      More than 62,000 people visited the Swasthya Chetan Camps for health check-ups
      Posted On: 27 NOV 2017 4:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has been awarded the Bronze Medal for its creative and informative display at the 37th India International Trade Fair 2017 being held at Pragati Maidan, here today. The award was presented by Shri C R Chaudhary, Minister of State (Commerce and Industry) at a function organized to award the winners. Smt. Vandana Gurnani, Joint Secretary (RCH, IEC) at the Health Ministry received the award on behalf of the Ministry. Shri L C Goyal, CMD, ITPO and senior officers of the Ministry were also present at the function.
    
    The Health Ministry pavilion highlighted programmes and initiatives of the Health Ministry such as Mission Indradhnaush for expanding full immunization coverage, introduction of new vaccines, Pradhan Mantri Matritva Suraksha Yojana (PMSMA), Mother’s Absolute Affection (MAA) for encouraging breastfeeding, Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) for strengthening the tertiary health sector. Jansankhya Sthirta Kosh (JSK) also participated in the exhibition through a unique selfie corner which encouraged couples to adopt small family norms. It created awareness about various schemes for population stabilization through nukkad natak and street plays at Pragati Maidan. The Ministry of AYUSH also participated to inform and educate people about the traditional systems of medicine. Live yoga demonstration by students of the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga and Naturapathy was also conducted every day to popularize yoga among the visitors. Free health check-up was provided at the pavilion by CGHS doctors.
    
    Three Swasthya Chetna camps were also organized by the Health Ministry for providing free of cost health check-up, counseling and referral. AYUSH doctors provided counseling along with doctors from the Central Government hospitals at these camps. More than 62,000 people have visited these health camps during this fortnight.

    ****


    
    
    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510981) Visitor Counter : 109