      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr. Jitendra Singh calls for tackling Insurgency issue with customized solutions
      MoS (PMO) emphasizes on police modernization with integrated expertise
      Posted On: 17 NOV 2017 4:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh has said that CAPFs and State Police has come of age to tackle the menace of insurgency. He saidthat new and evolved Technology should be utilized to tackle the insurgency and terrorism effectively. Dr. Jitendra Singh said this while addressing the 6th International Conference on Homeland Security here today. The theme of the Conference is ‘Integrated Approach to Security’ with the Session titled ‘Operational Challenges in Counter Insurgency and Solutions.
    
    Dr. Jitendra Singh said that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘New India’ can become a success if safe and secure India become the mantra. He also exhorted the stakeholders to evolve a value based system with high morals, so the young generation is not diverted from the path of discipline, growth and development. He also praised the high competence and technological efforts and prowess of the Security Forces and Intelligence Agencies to address the security issues. He said Cyber Security needs to be revisited with sustained renewed vigor so that the country is not lagging in global technological advancement sphere.
    
    Dr. Jitendra Singh said that the latest researches needs to synergized with the requirements to evolve an effective and efficient Counter Insurgency strategy. Dr. Jitendra Singh said that driven by the inspiration of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s clarion call and constant strive for excellence in security domain, he said the incidence of insurgency has reduced enormously in J&K with the proactive and pre-emptive approach of the Government in addressing the menace of cross-border terrorism.
    
    Dr. Jitendra Singh said that every solution in the realm of Insurgency issue should be customized based on region specific requirements of the state, terrain of the region and local populace. He emphasized the need for Research and Development (R&D) in this area and to develop the technological solutions with an endeavor rooted in Indian conditions to address the region specific issues of insurgency. He underlined the importance of best practices and policies driven with the sole objective of police modernization and development of security forces with integrated expertise driven approach. He said that there is a quintessential need to be aware of the Human Rights while addressing the law and order and security issues. He said in the recent past, the J&K Special Operations Group has done a commendable job in nabbing the militants and their efforts are setting a new benchmark for the security apparatus. He said that the confidence of people in the borders have accentuated with the decisive action of the Government. He said that the core solution to the insurgency issues should be based on the pillars of clarity and conviction.

    *****


    
    
    KSD/SB/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510017) Visitor Counter : 220