      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Week long Inter Child Care Institution Festival “Hausla 2017” organized by the WCD Ministry draws to a colorful close
      
      
      700 children from across India participate in the week long events of “Hausla 2017”
      
      Guidelines of scholarship under Unnati Scheme for children of CCIs released

      Posted On: 20 NOV 2017 8:04PM by PIB Delhi

    Hausla 2017, a festival to celebrate children living in Child Care Institutions ended with a closing ceremony of colourful cultural performances by the children themselves in New Delhi today. Nearly 700 children from CCIs across the country including Delhi participated in the 7-day programme.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister of State for Women & Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar said that the festival brought out remarkable talents in children whether in sports or painting or speaking or dancing. It also gave them an opportunity to travel outside their states and to meet children from other states, thereby giving them a feeling of unity in diversity. The effort of the Ministry of Women and Child Development to organize the festival of this scale is only a beginning and the Ministry is determined to give all the children a better and bright future, the Minister added.
    
    The scheme guidelines of Unnati for giving scholarships under National Children’s Fund to children of CCIs who show good academic performance were released on the occasion. A compilation of speeches written by children was also released.
    
    The Minister of State for Women & Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar gave away the trophy to Chattisgarh State which emerged as an overall winner. A girl from Chattisgarh got the trophy of the best athlete while the children from Sikkim were awarded for their commitment to Swachhta. The children entertained the audience with their cultural performances at the closing ceremony today.
    
    Earlier in the day, Dr. Virendra Kumar felicitated the winners of Athletics and Sports Meet organized under “Hausla 2017” in the presence of legendry cricketer and Parliamentarian, Bharat Ratna, Shri Sachin Tendulkar. Shri Tendulkar gave away the trophy to the winning football teams.
    
    Addressing on the occasion, Dr. Virendra Kumar congratulated the award winners and said that the sports activities not only contribute to physical development but also enhance mental development and power of concentration as well as bringing up feeling of togetherness among the players. Shri Sachin Tendulkar said that even if one fails, one should not lose the hope of winning because success may be waiting around the corner.
    
    Various events organized during the sports and athletics meet included 100 meter race, 100×4 meter relay race, long jump, high jump, chess and football matches for both and girls categories. Winners in different categories were conferred gold, silver and bronze medals by the Minister of State for Women & Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar.

    *****


    
    
    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510283) Visitor Counter : 170