      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      The abuse of technology is the main challenge, the common feeling expressed in open forum discussion
      Posted On: 25 NOV 2017 8:15PM by PIB Delhi

      In the 48 th International Film Festival of India day three of open forum belonged to the discussion on ‘Are Actors Losing Control due to Changing Technologies?’ Pierre Assouline, French Filmmaker, Shyam G K filmmaker from Bengaluru, Swastik Chaudhary, Oriyan Film maker, Amartya Bhattcharya, Bengali filmmaker and Deb Kamal Ganguly, Faculty, FTII participated in the discussion.

        Amartya Bhattcharaya in his opening remark said that actor must not take control over cinema. Performing art is very primary because technology is never a replacement of human feelings. While narrating the experience about film making Mr Bhattcharaya said that, he completed a film ‘ Benaras-the unexplored attachments’ with DSLR Camera and that won National Cinematography award. Further, he expressed that, abuse of the technology is main challenge & not the use of technology.


        Deb Kamal Ganguly, Faculty, FTII said that in the film important aspect is ‘acting’ technology is supplementary part of film. We have replaced voice of actors long ago but not emotions and sentiments, which we see onscreen is ‘profilmic reality’ means we see that happens in front of camera. ‘Idea of stardom’ changes every decade, said Mr Ganguly.


        French filmmaker Pierre Assouline expressed his views on technology. He said that new technologies are the means to control commercial cinema. Cinema is not for highlighting an actor but to tell the story.


        Swastik chaudhary, Oriya filmmaker said that there is always an opportunity to break conventions. Shyam G K filmmaker from Bengaluru also participated in the open forum discussion.


        Tomorrow at Open Forum discussion the topic is ‘Crowding the Social Media, is documentary the only source of genuine information’. Manish Desai, Director General, Films Division, Shaswat Gupta Ray, Editor, Gomantak Times and Deep Dhruv from Social Media Wing of Press Information Bureau will participate in the discussion.


        ****


        PIB IFFI 2017/No. 31

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510861) Visitor Counter : 177