      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      NCPCR celebrates ‘BAAL UTSAV’ as part of Hausla-2017, a festival for children living in CCIs across the country
      Posted On: 18 NOV 2017 7:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) today celebrated Baal Utsav as part of Hausla-2017, a week long festival for children living in Child Care Institutions across the country being celebrated by the Ministry of Women and Child Development in New Delhi. About 1000 children from such institutions participated in today’s programme. The main objective of the programme was to promote child participation and showcase their talents in other creative activities. Non-Government Organizations from Delhi and NCR region also took part in the celebration. At the outset, Smt. Stuti Kacker, Chairperson, NCPCR, welcomed all the dignitaries and participants.
    
    Minister of State for Womena and Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar expressed happiness at the celebration and felt delighted to see the presence of a large number of children. Dr. Virendra Kumar said that children are the key to success and development of the country. He also shared his childhood memories and experiences and advised all children to put in hard work for their studies and he also urged the CCIs to provide a family atmosphere to all children residing in the institutions for their growth and development.
    
    Justice M.B. Lokur, Hon’ble Judge, Supreme Court of India, expressed concern over the rise in crimes against children. He appreciated the efforts taken by Central Government for promoting various initiatives related to child development and protection. He also insisted that such MELAS should be organised in other States regularly.
    
    Addressing the gathering, Bollywood Singer Mr. Mohit Chouhan narrated his childhood memories & experiences and sung his few best songs for children including one Himachali folk song. He requested all the children to remain in touch with their culture and folk music.
    
    The main attraction of the programme was an interactive session between the children and the dignitaries of the event. The lively question-answer session was coordinated by Shri Yashwant Jain , Member-NCPCR.
    
    Smt. Yasmin Haque, UNICEF Chief, India along with Sh. Rakesh Srivastav, Secretary, WCD; Sh. Ajay Tirki, Addl Secretary and Smt. Astha Saxena Sahni, Jt Secretary, M/o WCD; Dr. Bharat Agarwal, Ex. Director, Dainik Bhasker Group; Ms. Ruhana Khanna, child artist from TV serial Ganga; Smt. Renuka Mishra,IG, Sima Surakhya Bal(SSB); Ms. Sanjana Kapoor, Actress and Theatre Artiste; Dr. Rajesh Sagar from AIIMS and Dr. N.G.Desai from IHBAS, Smt Rupa Kappor , Member NCPCR were also present for this UTSAV. Apart from sports activities (Cricket), cultural programmes (10nos.) by differently abled children and others were presented. Singer Sh. Debu Mukerjee also gave an enthralling performance.

    *****


    
    
    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510142) Visitor Counter : 149