      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      10 new heritage sites commence special sanitation action as the Swachh Iconic Places project under Swachh Bharat Mission completes a year.
      Posted On: 21 NOV 2017 8:41PM by PIB Delhi


    A two day National Consultation of Swachh Iconic Places (SIP), an initiative of Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation under Swachh Bharat Mission began today at New Delhi. Representatives from 20 Iconic Sites including central and State officials, representatives of iconic places and Corporate and development partners including World Bank joined the consultations.


    Initiated as a project to implement Prime Minister’s vision to take iconic places and their surroundings to higher standards of Swachhata, so that all visitors benefit and also take away home the message of cleanliness, Swachh Iconic Places is now in its second phase.


    10 New Iconic sites identified under Phase II are: 1. Gangotri, 2. Yamunotri,
    3. Mahakaleshwar Temple, 4. Charminar, 5. Church and Convent of St. Francis of Assissi, 6. Kalady, 7. Gomateshwar, 8. Baijnath Dham, 9. Gaya Tirth and 10. Somnath temple. These phase II SIPs will join 10 iconic places where special Swachhata work is under implementation for about a year. These Phase I iconic places are: 1. Ajmer Sharif Dargah
    2. CST Mumbai 3. Golden Temple, 4. Kamakhya Temple, 5. Maikarnika Ghat, 6. Meenakshi Temple, 7. Shri Mata Vaishno Devi, 8. Shree Jagannath Temple, 9. The Taj Mahal and 10. Tirupati Temple.


    SIP is a truly collaborative project with three other central Ministries: Urban Development, Culture, Tourism; all levels in the concerned States and more importantly, Public Sector and Private companies as partners. The CSR partners for both the phases are:
    1. Hindustan Zinc India Ltd. 2. SBI Foundation 3. HPCL 4. Oil India Ltd 5. Northern Coal Field Ltd 6. BPCL 7. NALCO 8. IOCL 9. GAIL 10. ONGC 11. NHPC 12. NTPC 13. Airport Authority of India 14. Power Grid Corporation (PGCIL) 15. IDEA Cellular 16. Hindustan Aeronautics (HAL).


    In his opening address, Secretary, MDWS, Shri Parameswaran Iyer, said that SIP is a unique initiative and is aligned with the PM’s vision of achieving high standard of cleanliness and easy access to sanitation at iconic places of historic, religious and tourist importance. He highlighted the importance of collaboration between multiple agencies, which has accelerated the implementation of action plans.


    On this occasion, Secretary, MDWS released a special Compendium and brochure on SIP giving information and progress in the project.


    Director General (Special Projects), Swachh Bharat Mission, Shri Akshay Rout presented the SIP status report of previous year and highlighted the key initiatives launched by the Phase I sites towards improving the cleanliness and sanitation facilities.


    Phase I iconic sites reported notable initiatives taken by them like improved sewage infrastructure, drainage facilities, installation of Sewage Treatment Plant (STP), improved sanitation facilities, water vending machines (Water ATMs), Solid and Liquid Waste Management (SLWM) set-up, structure restoration, roads maintenance, Lighting arrangements, beautification of parks, better transport facilities in approach and access areas besides at the main sites.


    The Phase II Iconic sites formulated their Action Plans based on their site needs in consultation with experts and based on learning from phase I implementation.


    <><><><><>


    SNC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1510390) Visitor Counter : 256
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil