      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Shri Radha Mohan Singh to inaugurate World Fisheries Day Celebrations 2017
      Posted On: 20 NOV 2017 1:36PM by PIB Delhi


    (Curtain Raiser)


    On 21st November 1997, the working fishermen and women representing World Forum of Fish Harvesters & Fish Workers from 18 countries met at New Delhi and established the World Fisheries Forum (WFF) advocating for a global mandate of sustainable fishing practices and policies. To commemorate this occasion, every year 21st November is celebrated all over the world as World Fisheries Day. In India, it is being celebrated for the fourth consecutive year. This year the Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Government of India, is celebrating it on 21st November 2017 at the National Agricultural Science Centre (NASC) Complex, Pusa Road, New Delhi. This year’s theme is “2022 Ka Hai Sapna … Kisan Ki Aay Ho Dugna - Sankalp Se Siddhi”.


    Shri Radha Mohan Singh, Union Minister for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare will inaugurate the World Fisheries Day Celebrations. Exhibition, technical sessions and information on Blue revolution Schemes are the main attractions of the event. On this occasion an exhibition showcasing the technological advances made and development achieved in Fisheries Sector would be organized and about 50 exhibitors will be participating. In technical sessions, Subject Matter Experts, Progressive Farmers and Entrepreneurs would make presentations on various topics in emerging areas related to Fisheries Development in the county for the benefit of the participants and the stakeholders at large, for achieving the envisaged fish production. Topics on components and targets of Blue Revolution, shrimp aquaculture, sustainable intensification of aquaculture, cage culture, tilapia culture, ornamental fish farming, aquatic animal health management, policy on fisheries, etc., all of which would lead to increase in production and productivity, will be discussed. Fishers, fish Farmers, entrepreneurs, Departmental officers from States, extension workers, scientists, and other dignitaries from all over the country will participate in the event.


    *****


    SS/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510202) Visitor Counter : 345