      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Open Forum Discussion on ‘Need for Film Courses and Training to meet the present day demand’
      Posted On: 24 NOV 2017 6:47PM by PIB Delhi

      Different layers of trainings come into play to meet quality output. So, there is a need for film courses and training to meet the present day demand, this is the common feeling expressed in open forum. In IFFI today there was anOpen Forum discussion on ‘Need for film courses and training to meet the present day demand’. AmitTyagi, Dean (Film), Film and Television Institute of India, Pune, Ms Ana Tiwary, Producer and Director, Australia, Ms Sukhpreet Kahlon, Film Scholar, New Delhi, ShashankBhosale, Film maker from Goa were participated in the discussion.

        AmitTyagi, while making his point emphasized on bringing more film institutes to cater younger population. In our country nearly 5 to7 croes of youth population is under 30. This meant a huge potential for those wanting to learn filmmaking. While FTII caters to only 110 select students, this is a huge dearth in training potential.


        “We need to welcome those who are interested to learn the audio-visual medium. I say audio-visual because it’s an equally large industry as the others. 30 years ago we could only watch movies, but today the average house has 300 channels. The tools to produce too are affordable.” He went on to add that in terms of training there are different layers to it. Events at the local level like a wedding would not require the skills that perhaps a filmmaker would. So, there is a need to keep all layers of proper training intact.


        Ms Ana Tiwary, a resident of Australia for the past 10 years is currently putting together a syllabus on cultural competencies for a university there. She mentioned the need to bring out diversity in society and be socially sensitive. She said that, film schools create a support system. Network of friends helps into building a career and sustaining a career also. While describing Australian Films, she told that Australian films missing cultural understanding. Cultural understanding is very important for film making.


        In addition to a formal film education, Sukhpreet Kahlon, a film scholar said that there needs to be an effort to educate the young on India’s rich cinematic legacy. She elucidated with an incident where a student didn’t know the existence of silent films in India.“We need to give a sense of cinematic history only then they will be able to connect,” she said.


        Samantha Santori, a journalist from New York said certain aspects need a formal education and every filmmaker needs to put his heart into the film.


        A young filmmaker ShashankBhonsale from Goa shared his experience of beginning his journey without any formal education. He spoke of the making of his first award winning short film that dealt about the preservation of mangroves. ShashankBhosle,is from Information and Technology field. He said that there is no need of formal education of film making. ShashankBhosale’s documentary on mangroves in Goa appreciated in Green Heros Film Festival, Mumbai. Now ShanshankBhosale is working on documentary on ‘Crocodiles’.


        Tomorrow at ‘Open Forum’ topic of discussion will be “Are actors loosing control due to changing technologies?” at Old GMC Building, IFFI Goa.


        *****


        PIB IFFI 2017/ No.25

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510883) Visitor Counter : 102