      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      During the current financial year 2017-18 NCDC registers a record by surpassing its annual target in first 6 months: Shri Radha Mohan Singh |
      
      
      During the financial year 2016-17, NCDC sanctions Rs. 25270 Crores & disburses an all time high assistance of Rs. 15915 Crores: Shri Singh
      
      Shri Radha Mohan Singh addresses the 82nd General Council meeting of National Cooperative Development Corporation

      Posted On: 21 NOV 2017 5:39PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmer Welfare, Shri Radha Mohan Singh has said that during the current financial year 2017-18 NCDC not only continued its excellent performance, but also registered a record by surpassing its annual target in first 6 months.
    
    Shri Radha Mohan Singh informed the members that during 2016-17 NCDC sanctioned Rs. 25270 crore and disbursed all high time assistance Rs.15915 crores. Shri Singh further said that in the last three years, the Corporation also registered a significant growth of 254% in releasing its financial assistance to the cooperatives. This was stated by Union Agriculture Minister in 82nd meeting of General Council of NCDC held on 21st November, 2017 at Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi.
    
    Union Agriculture Minister said that Net NPA of Corporation was maintained at zero level and its loan recovery rate is more than 99.66%. The Corporation during the current financial year, 2017-18 not only continued excellent performance, but also registered a record by surpassing its annual target in first 6th month. Shri Singh appreciated the performance of NCDC and expressed hope that NCDC would continue to post commendable results and achieve greater heights and standard in the years to come.
    
    Shri Singh emphasized the role of cooperatives in ensuring remunerative income for farmers and invited people to invest for creation of direct supply chain and develop post harvest infrastructure to ensure better income for farmers in line with the resolve of Government of India to double the income of farmer by 2022. In this regard he said that NCDC will continue to play a pivotal role in development of cooperatives in the larger interest of the farmer and rural population.
    
    Shri Radha Mohan Singh solicited wholehearted support from members of GC to accelerate the progress of cooperative movement and said that NCDC would continue its efforts to make its assistance more attractive and affordable for cooperatives in agriculture and allied sectors. Shri Singh also informed that it has been decided to upgrade NCDC Training Institute situated at Gurugram (Haryana) as a national level institute and rename it as Laxmanrao Inamdar Academy for Cooperative Studies and Human Resource Management.

    ****


    
    
    SS/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510341) Visitor Counter : 156
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil