      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Nearly 500 Children residing in Child Care Institutions from all over the country taking part in various events of ‘Hausla 2017’ in Delhi
      Bal Sansad and Painting Competition organized successfully for children taking part in ‘Hausla 2017’
      
      CCIs across the country to be ranked on the basis of standards of care provided by them

      Posted On: 17 NOV 2017 5:59PM by PIB Delhi

    As a part of ‘Hausla 2017’ celebration, a painting event for children residing in Child Care Institutions (CCIs) from all over the country was organized by the Ministry of Women & Child Development in New Delhi today. 46 children of CCIs from States/UTs participated in the event. The Minister of State for Women & Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar gave away Gold, Silver and Bronze medals to the winners.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Virendra Kumar congratulated the children for their exemplary efforts and creativity shown through the painting competition. Complementing the children he said that he was highly impressed by the way children had brought out their imagination and dreams through the colours of their paintings. He also announced that all these paintings will be exhibited in the parliament annexe and the money raised through these paintings would be shared with the children.


    Addressing the children, Secretary WCD, Shri Rakesh Srivastava reiterated that the Ministry has organized the first of its kind national level programme for children living in child care institutions. He also said that the Ministry would like to organize such events at regional and State levels as well. In order to improve the quality of life of the children in child care institutions, the Ministry is contemplating ranking of these institutions based on the standards of care adhered to by them.


    Today’s painting event started with an explorative orientation workshop facilitated by prominent artists namely Ms. Ashima Bhola, Ms. Madhumita Bal, Mr.Satya Vijay, Ms. Shruti and Ms. Naina Mathur (one of the judges). The paintings were judged by a panel of three judges, Shri. Govind Kumar, Shri. Vicky Roy and Ms. Naina Mathur.


    Children were given four thematic areas namely what makes me happy, my dream on paper, my ideal world and any other. Children used different medium such as water colours, crayons and pencil colours to express their thoughts and emotions. The medley of colours and lines not only showcase their talent and creativity but also their dreams and aspirations.


    The first prize was given to the child from Assam, second prize winner was from Punjab and the third prize winner was from Andhra Pradesh. Special recognition was given to two children from Punjab and Arunachal Pradesh.


    Earlier yesterday, as a part of ‘Hausla 2017’ celebration, Bal Sansad was organized in New Delhi. The event was designed to empower children to voice their opinions regarding issues related to their welfare and also give their suggestions. Approximately 250 children in the age group of 14-18 years from States/UTs to participated in the programme who has come from various child care institutions across the country.


    During the programme children spoke about various issues related to their own right to survival, development, protection and participation. They also shared their suggestions such as ensuring access to playgrounds to all children, orientation of teachers, health service providers and police to be sensitive towards needs of vulnerable children, improved facilities for rehabilitations of children who are addicted to substance abuse and adequate facilities for higher education of children of CCIs. The issue of street children and children who are into begging was highlighted by many of the participants. Children presented their charter of demands and suggestions to the dignitaries.


    Responding to children’s voices, the Minister of State for Women & Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar appreciated the level of awareness among the children. He assured the children that their concerns and suggestions will be given due regard and the Ministry will surely try to address them in an appropriate way. Quoting the lines of a poem, he inspired children by saying, “अभी तो पंख खोले हैं, उड़ान अभी बाकी है!”


    Additional Secretary WCD, Mr. Ajay Tirkey stated that ‘Hausla 2017’ will provide children a platform to showcase their talents and get to know children from other states.


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development is celebrating the Child Rights Week by hosting an inter-Child Care Institution festival, “Hausla 2017” for the children who reside in child care institutions between 16-20th November 2017. The event aims at inspiring and mainstreaming these children by providing a national platform to showcase their talents. Nearly 500 Children from 26 States/UTs are participating in various events being organized as part of Hausla 2017.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510048) Visitor Counter : 150