      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Swachh Bharat Mission celebrates World Toilet Day Countrywide for galvanising people's participation for an Open Defecation Free India.
      
      Central team assists villagers in Champaran, Bihar to build Izzatghar.

      Posted On: 19 NOV 2017 4:38PM by PIB Delhi

    On the occasion of World Toilet Day, large number of behaviour change and toilet usage activities were undertaken by the States and districts around the country as part of Swachh Bharat Mission. Processions were taken out, discussions were held, and school children joined in large numbers in several innovative activities to highlight the importance of toilet access and usage.


    
    If Santa Claus was the flavour of toilet education in Jharkhand, Punjab launched Swachhta Raths. Noted Sand Artist Sudarsan Pattnaik crafted a swachhata message on sand and a group of Assamese women inspired 371 villagers to build toilets.
    
    Secretary, Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Shri Parameswaran Iyer led centre- state team to complete the construction of twin pit toilets in Turkauliya village in East Champaran district of Bihar.
    
    The team had a three-day immersion exercise during which they extensively interacted with villagers directly, including women and students to generate demand for toilets.
    
    Village Mukhiyas from neighbouring GPs had a grand chaupal with the Secretary and his team. The Mukhiyas assured that they would help making the district ODF in six months of time. The Secretary, Mr Iyer also launched a national radio campaign for Toilet adoption and usage on the occasion.
    
    Once toilets were built, the Government team joined the villagers in a Chetana Yatra to spread the message of swachhata and usage of toilets to a nearby Gandhi memorial. Underlining the importance of World Toilet Day, the Secretary stressed upon the need of having a toilet at home and its usage by all the members of family.

    <><><><><>


    
    
    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510163) Visitor Counter : 117