      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      GCCS 2017 – Chair’s Statement- Summary
      Posted On: 24 NOV 2017 8:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Starting with the London Process in 2011 which initiated a broad dialogue on the opportunities and challenges in an increasingly networked world and to create a platform to address key themes in cyberspace, the delegates to the Fifth Global Conference on Cyberspace (GCCS) 2017, met in New Delhi from November 23-24, 2017 to promote an inclusive, sustainable, open, secure, stable and accessible cyberspace.


    2. T he Conference recognised that international community, including the governments, private sector, civil society, industry and technical and academic communities have developed significant capacities, technologies and mechanisms/frameworks to harness the vast potential of ICTs for development. The Conference agreed that the focus needs to be on looking beyond digitisation to digital technology as means to empower people.


    3. We noted with concern that the existing digital divide among the countries presents a challenge to many States. Therefore, we cannot have a situation where access to internet is discriminatory or controlled through selective gateways. The conference strongly supports this concept as reflected in its theme of cyber4all.


    4. In particular the conference noted with satisfaction India’s Digital Initiative of transformation and empowerment of the people through programmes like Digital India, Skill India, Start-up India, Stand-up India that are empowering common people as well as our Mass digital movements like Common Service Centres in the rural areas that are promoting entrepreneurship and and promoting digital inclusion.


    5. The conference noted that women form a significant part of the IT workforce. Digital technology has facilitated several new enterprises led by women. In this way the IT sector has potential for gender empowerment.


    Cyber 4 Growth:


    6. The conference highlighted the use of new technologies has a major potential for transformation of governance structures of the future. Artificial Intelligence, IoT, data analytics, robotics and virtual reality are transforming global business and economies. We appreciate the need to develop proper policy environment with open and free cyber space.


    7. We noted with satisfaction that Governments around the world are leveraging digital platforms, and building digital infrastructure, to transform how they deliver public services and support to citizens, enabling participative, bottom-up citizen engagement and anytime/anywhere service delivery within disadvantaged communities.


    8. Cyberspace remains a key area for innovation. Startups, are providing solutions to common everyday problems. The global investor community must recognize the immense potential waiting to be tapped. The global economy is becoming increasingly dependent on cyberspace and digital technology. It is important to give primacy to human face of technology in this context.


    Cyber 4Digital Inclusion


    9. The conference stressed the fact that Inclusiveness is the bedrock of sustainability. This calls for a program based approach with focus on access programs, digital skill training, community technology spaces and low cost access devices. India’s myGov initiative is an example of how digital technologies could be tools of effective citizen engagement.


    Cyber4Security


    10. Securing the cyberspace has become one of the biggest challenges in the present day. Nations must take responsibility to ensure that the digital space does not become a playground for the dark forces of terrorism and radicalization.


    11. We recognize that we must coordinate our security services in order to detect and deter attacks. We need to create the fine balance between privacy and openness on one hand, and national security on the other. Together, we can overcome the differences between global and open systems on one hand, and nation-specific legal requirements on the other.


    Cyber 4Diplomacy


    12. The extensive use of cyber space by states to carry out its legitimate activities including service delivery of its citizens, has thrown up new challenges in terms of establishing norms of responsible state behaviour, handling cyber-crime through trans- national cooperation and resolving conflicts in cyberspace. Cyber diplomacy in digital age can be used as a tool to promote economic growth, development of technology to ensure an open source, interoperable and accessible cyber space to all.


    Conclusion & Way Forward


    13. Cyberspace is a public resource, improving the quality of life of individuals, improving the reach and productivity of business and effectiveness of governments. Technology breaks barriers.


    14. India emphasize s the need for creation of a digital platform which would enable various stakeholders to address potential information and communication technology gaps and harness information and communication technology for sustainable development. There is particularly the need for finding scalable models and innovative solutions in education and health, using digital technology. There is also the need to make cyberspace an enabler for the differently-abled.


    15. To facilitate this India will enable a Digital Knowledge Sharing Platform which will help in sharing of knowledge and expertise between different countries


    16. The large multi-stakeholder participation at this event is proof of the global endorsement that this platform has received. India calls upon Nation states, the industry, academia and civil society, to work towards a formal collaborative framework. This will enable a secure cyberspace which improves quality of life.


    NNK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510876) Visitor Counter : 168