      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Atom Egoyan conducts a Master Class at IFFI 2017!
      Posted On: 27 NOV 2017 6:41PM by PIB Delhi

      
      Canadian stage and film director, writer and producer Atom Egoyan hosted a special Master Class on Day 8 at the 48th International Film Festival of India.

        Atom Egoyan is one of Canada’s most celebrated directors and was knighted by the French government and is a Companion of the Order of Canada, the country’s highest honour.


        While his film Exotica, which won the FIPRESCI Prize at Cannes’94, was his first international breakthrough, The Sweet Hereafter, his most critically acclaimed film, received two Academy Award nominations. His other films Where the Truth Lies, Adoration and The Captive have all competed for the Palme d’Or in Cannes.


        Exotica talks about a dutiful wife and mother re-examining her veneration of her husband after she finds another woman’s underwear in his laundry. Her quest to find the truth leads her to an unexpected journey of liberation.


        The IFFI 2017 Atom Egoyan's Master Class held on 27th November was a treat for budding filmmakers and cinema aficionados, as he discussed his filmmaking style and other aspects of direction.


        Atom Egoyan says, “I think for any drama genre film to work, you need to work on the projection through the eyes of a viewer and then the actual transformation happens. There’s this sense of naturalism which I try to display in each of my films, the structure, the story-telling and situations need to be realistic. My stories have always been unconventional.”


        Festival Sunit Tandon says, “We are so pleased that Mr Egoyan agreed to be part of IFFI 2017. I have seen his films since long time and his films have always featured at IFFI. It’s wonderful to have him personally here and he will be receiving the lifetime achievement award at this festival tomorrow.”


        The 48th Edition of IFFI is being held from the 20th to 28th of November, 2017 in the beach state of Goa.


        The Film Maker Atom Egoyan at the Master Class on Making Drama, during the 48th International Film Festival of India (IFFI-2017), in Panaji, Goa on November 27, 2017.


        *****


        PIB IFFI 2017/ No.41

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511037) Visitor Counter : 83