      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      ACC appointments
      Posted On: 28 NOV 2017 6:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the following appointments:


    1). Shri Raghvendra Singh, IAS (WB:83), Director General, National Archives as Secretary, Ministry of Culture in the existing vacancy.


    2). Shri Ajay Kumar, IAS (KL:85), Additional Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeiTY) as Secretary, Department of Defence Production w.e.f. 01.12.2017 in the existing vacancy.


    3). Shri Upendra Prasad Singh, IAS (OR:85), Additional Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation as Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation in the vacancy to be caused on superannuation of the present incumbent Shri Amarjit Singh, IAS (GJ:82) on 30.11.2017. Shri Upendra Prasad Singh will also hold additional charge of CEO, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG).


    4). Shri Pradeep Singh Kharola, IAS (KN:85) presently in the cadre as Chairman and Managing Director, Air India, in the rank and pay of Secretary to Government of India.


    5). Shri Badri Narain Sharma, IAS (RJ:85), Additional Secretary, Department of Revenue as Chairman, National Anti-Profiteering Authority (NAA) in the rank and pay of Secretary to Government of India


    6). Shri Pritam Singh, IAS (RJ:84), Additional Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs as Director General, National Archives, in the rank and pay of Additional Secretary to Government of India, in the vacancy caused due to appointment of Shri Raghvendra Singh as Secretary, Ministry of Culture.


    7). Shri M.M. Kutty, IAS (UT:85), presently in the cadre as Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs in the vacancy to be caused on superannuation of the present incumbent Shri Dinesh Sharma, IAS (KL:83) on 30 11.2017.


    8). Shri G.C. Murmu, IAS (GJ:85), Additional Secretary, Department of Financial Services as Additional Secretary, Department of Revenue on lateral shift basis.


    9). Shri Apurva Chandra, IAS (MH:88), Additional Secretary, Department of Defence Production as Additional Secretary and Director General Acquisition, Ministry of Defence, on lateral shift basis w.e.f. 01.12.2017, in the vacancy to be caused on relinquishment of charge by the present incumbent Smt Smita Nagraj, consequent to her appointment as Member, UPSC.


    10). Extension in the tenure of Shri R.K. Jain, IAS (HP:81) (Retd) presently Member, National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) for a further period of 1 year up to 30.11.2018 or until further orders whichever is earlier.


    11). In-situ upgradation of the following officers of the 1985 batch to the level of Special Secretary, as a measure personal to them, by temporarily upgrading the posts held by them with effect from the date of assumption of charge of the post of Secretary to Government of India by their immediate inter-se junior in the batch Shri Ajay Kumar, IAS (KL:85):


    a). Smt. Surina Rajan, IAS (HY :85), Director General, Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)


    b). Shri Arun Goyal, IAS (UT:85), Additional Secretary, Department of Revenue


    c). Shri R. Subrahmanyam, IAS (AP:85), Additional Secretary, Ministry of Human Resource Development


    12). In-situ upgradation of Smt. Pushpa Subrahmanyam, IAS (TG:85), Additional Secretary, Ministry of Textiles, to the level of Special Secretary as a measure personal to her, from the date her immediate inter-se junior in the batch, Shri Upendra Prasad Singh, IAS (OR:85) assumes charge of the post of Secretary to Government of India.


    ****


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511148) Visitor Counter : 303