      Ministry of Steel

      SAIL-ASP awarded for indigenization, supply of import substitute steel plates
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2017 6:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Alloy Steels Plant (ASP) of the Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) today received the "BEST PERFORMANCE VENDOR - 2017" award from Ordnance Factory, Medak (OF-M) for indigenization, development and supply of import substitute steel plates. The steel plates in two categories, for which SAIL received the award, were supplied by Durgapur-based ASP, the special steels plant of SAIL. The award was received by Shri AK Patra, DGM I/c (Research & Control Lab.)/ SAIL-ASP, at the Ordnance Factory’s Vendors’ meet held in Medak.
    
    Plates made with two special-grade varieties of low- and medium-carbon steels developed at SAIL-ASP as import substitutes were supplied to OF-M for meeting the specific property requirements of defence applications, such as muzzle brake for cannons/barrels installed in infantry fighting amphibious vehicles and their bottom parts. Muzzle brake is a component that is fitted on top of the cannon or barrel that redirects propellant gases to counter recoil and unwanted rising of the barrel/cannon during rapid fire. Apart from meeting stringent chemical properties, the plates developed by SAIL-ASP also excel in matching physical attributes of plates like excellent surface finish and formability along with meeting the specified properties as stipulated in heat-treated conditions.
    
    SAIL-ASP has a diverse product portfolio of over 400 grades catering to critical end-use by strategic sectors such as Defence, Railways, Automobiles, Power plants and heavy engineering & manufacturing industries. For Defence applications, the plant manufactures high impact-resistant steels (armour-grade steels) and customized steels for naval applications. SAIL-ASP also has capability for manufacturing a variety of stainless steels products also.
    
    SAIL is pioneering the ‘Make in India’ campaign by producing world-class steel products in various categories and partnering the Make in Steel - Make in India vision of the Ministry of Steel. SAIL steel has been used in various prestigious national projects like the Dhola-Sadiya bridge, Sardar Sarovar Dam, Metro projects in various cities, Chenani-Nashri tunnel, Pamban railway sea bridge, Bandra-Worli sea link, etc. The company is increasing the share of value-added products in its product-mix to meet specific requirements of customers.

    *****


    
    
    NW

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511255) Visitor Counter : 153