      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      RRTS to design speed of 180 kmph using state of the art technologies for Track Structure, Rolling Stock & Signalling System
      
      Techno-Commercial agreement signed with ADIF, Spain
      
      Institutional Mechanism for mutual cooperation in the field of Urban transport and implementation of RRTS project
      
      Three RRTS corridors: Delhi-Meerut, Delhi – Panipat & Delhi – Alwar smart lines prioritised

      Posted On: 30 NOV 2017 1:00PM by PIB Delhi

    An indo-spanish technical cooperation (government to government) agreement was signed by mr vinay kumar singh, managing director/ ncrtc and mr miguel nieto menor, director general, adif of spain, in the presence of shri hardeep singh puri, minister of housing & urban affairs here last evening and shri durga shanker mishra, secretary in the ministry. the ceremony was attended by mr. fernando nocolos puiggari, director international/adif, senior ministry officials, representatives from ministry of external affairs and spanish embassy in india.


    addressing on the occasion, sh hardeep s puri informed that the agreement will enable availability of technical advice on specific issues, besides providing training and collaboration in the technical areas of Track, Signalling, Rolling Stock, Safety, Multi modal integration, station design etc. Stressing on the importance of the project, Shri Mishra stated that this agreement will provide institutional mechanism for mutual cooperation in the field of urban transport and specially in implementation of RRTS project.


    National Capital Region Transport Corporation, a Joint Venture of Government of India and State Governments of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi, is mandated to design, construct, operate & maintain rail based Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) in the National Capital Region. Three RRTS corridors: Delhi-Meerut Smart Line, Delhi – Panipat Smart Line and Delhi – Alwar Smart Line have been prioritised for implementation in first phase. Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor will be the first corridor to be implemented for which pre-construction activities including geo-technical investigations, detailed design, utility shifting planning and traffic diversion planning are in progress.


    RRTS, first of its kind project in India, with design speed of 180 kmph will use state of the art technologies for track structure, rolling stock and signalling system. Expertise and experience in India on these technologies for higher speeds being limited, International expertise will be tapped for efficient implementation of project, operation of system and developing capacity in the country. Administrador de Infraestructuras Ferroviarias (ADIF), Spain, State-Owned Railway infrastructure company has experience of planning, developing, constructing, operating and maintaining high-speed railway and regional rail systems like Cercanias’ in Madrid. SNCF, the State-owned Railway Company of France, has also expressed willingness to support RRTS projects. Possibility of similar agreement between NCRTC and SNCF was explored during recent visit of SNCF delegation’s earlier this week.


    RJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511304) Visitor Counter : 157