      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      CSC to Play Significant Role in Digital India Programme: Shri Alphons Kannanthanam
      Posted On: 27 NOV 2017 5:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Alphons Kannanthanam, Hon’ble Minister of State Electronics & IT, in the workshop of District Managers of CSC mentioned that the Common Service Centre have to play a significant role in Digital India initiatives of the government. He said that CSC rural entrepreneurs have the ability to revolutionize India by empowering rural citizens and providing opportunities to access various government and other services. They can take forward the agenda of the government in serving the underserved especially those living in the rural India.


    The Hon’ble Minister of State was addressing around 600 District Managers of CSC from across the country, at the CSC National Conference, at India Habitat Centre today.


    The Hon’ble Minister inaugurated the event, appreciated the efforts of the Common Services Centres (CSCs) in providing key services like PMGDISHA, Aadhaar, banking, insurance to the grassroots. He gave the example of Kottayam, Kerala that was the first hundred percent digitally literate town in India, said, “CSCs are the biggest agent to complete the PM Modi’s dream of reaching fruits of development to the last man. Digital India provides the voice to the voiceless and that is going to be fulfilled by CSCs.” The Hon’ Minister added, “I am very happy to see the biggest revolution in this country is being done by Common Services Centres. CSC District Managers represent the government vision in the districts. They are the voice of government in their area and can contribute in making a digitally inclusive society.”


    Sh. Ajay Prakash Sawhney, Secretary, MeitY, said, “CSC movement is moving forward from strength to strength. The network of 2.70 lakh centres in India has done excellent work in Aadhaar enrollment, AEPS, Digital Literacy, Tele-Medicine, Insurance, Tele-law, Skill development. I am very happy to note that today CSCs are getting great opportunity to contribute in the recruitment for Indian Navy.” He added, “The District Managers to promote the payments through Digital Transactions to every person in the country.” He also mentioned to use Bharat QR code in every CSC.


    While welcoming the participants to the workshop, Dr. Dinesh Tyagi, CEO, CSC SPV said, “Today, 2.70 lakh CSCs are providing plethora of services at the doorsteps of the citizens. We have created ICT enabled rural enterprises in the country.” Dr. Tyagi added, “CSC has certified 4 million people under PMGDISHA in the last 6 months. CSCs have become vibrant due to PMGDISHA. We are working on all the services for rural people towards building empowered and digitally inclusive society.


    Ms. RM Vishakha, CEO-IndiaFirst said, “CSCs are providing quality services in rural India in a commendable way. CSC SPV and IndiaFirst have common vision for rural India. And to achieve the goals of financial inclusion, we are launching IndiaFirst Life CSC Insurance Khata that is a unique offering to enable the rural citizens to avail insurance benefits.”


    Following services launched during the Conference:


    Launch of Insurance Khata


    CSC SPV and IndiaFirst Life insurance launched “Insurance Khata” Plan, an inclusive financial plan that enables the mass market to avail insurance benefits with a convenient process. The plan takes in to account the possibility of seasonal income and provides the customer with the flexibility to pay premium in parts, as and when possible. It offers a structured platform that drives socially-inclusive and long-term development through community participation. The plan will leverage CSCs’ footprint of 2.7 lakh centres across the country, focusing to make insurance not only affordable but also accessible and attractive to the lower rungs of the social pyramid. Over time, bringing a less-acquainted market into insurance fold ensuring every strata of the society is covered against risks.


    Online applications through CSCs for Indian Navy recruitment


    Candidates applying for recruitment in the Indian Navy will now be able to fill up online applications through CSCs. Assistance to candidates will be provided through CSCs in the filling up online applications for Indian Navy induction/recruitments. CSC SPV will assist Indian Navy by providing access to CSCs network across the country for assisted online recruitment application form filling services. CSC SPV will also support Indian Navy in Advertising and Marketing of its vacancies & recruitment publicity through banners at CSC locations.


    Exchange of MOU between CSC academy and TCS – for Skill


    On this occasion, MoU exchanged between CSC academy and TCS to develop skill ecosystem in rural India. Now, more than 300 skill courses will reach to the rural masses through CSC network in India.


    Exchange of MOU between CSC & 2.5NVG Essilor – for Health care


    A MoU was exchanged for eye testing and distribution of spectacles through CSC network. Through this service, refractive index of eye can be tested and the glasses can be dispensed by a VLE at the reasonable prices.


    Seven District Managers were awarded for their outstanding performance in various services. On the occasion, the PMGDISHA Mobile Unit was flagged off by the Hon’ Minister.


    Apart from the Hon’ Minister, Secretary-MeitY, the event was attended by Ms. RM Vishakha, CEO-IndiaFirst and Vice Admiral AK Chawla, AVSM among others.


    ******


    NNK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511000) Visitor Counter : 319
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil