      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      President will confer National Award for Divyangjan Empowerment 2017 on International Day of Persons with Disabilities
      Posted On: 28 NOV 2017 10:42AM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind will confer the “National Award for Divyangjan, 2017” at a function organized by Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment on International Day of Persons with Disabilities i.e. 3 rd December, 2017 in Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. On this occasion, Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Minister of States for Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar and Shri Ramdas Athawale will also grace the occasion.


    On International Day of Persons with Disabilities i.e. 3 rd December the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment presents National Awards to Individuals, Institutions, Organisations, State/District etc for their outstanding achievements and work done towards empowerment of Persons with Disabilities. The National Awards are presented in 14 main categories hereunder:-


    I. Best Employee/Self Employed with disabilities;


    II. (a) Best Employers & (b) Best Placement Officer or Agency;


    III. (a) Best Individual and (b) Best Institution working for the Cause of Persons with Disabilities;


    IV. Role Model;


    V. Best Applied Research or Innovation or Product Development aimed at improving the life of persons with Disabilities;


    VI. Outstanding Work in the Creation of Barrier-free Environment for the Persons with Disabilities;


    VII. Best District in Providing Rehabilitation Services;


    VIII. Best State Channelizing Agency of National Handicapped Federation Development Corporation;


    IX. Outstanding Creative Adult Persons with Disabilities;


    X. Best Creative Child with Disabilities;


    XI. Best Braille Press;


    XII. Best “Accessible” Website;


    XIII. Best State in promoting empowerment of persons with disabilities; and

    
    XIV.          Best sports person with disability.
    
     
    
    Within stipulated date, out of the above 14 categories, 984 applications were received from 13 categories. Four Scrutiny Committees constituted by the Department as per the rules have scrutinized the nominations and were their recommendations are considered by the National Selection Committee. The National Selection Committee met on 10th and 16th November and recommended 52 persons / institutions for the awards.

    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/MoSJ&E/28.11.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511076) Visitor Counter : 244
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil