      Ministry of Defence

      Shri Jaitley Says Investment in Infrastructure is Essential to Growth
      Posted On: 30 NOV 2017 7:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley has said that investment in infrastructure is essential to growth. Delivering Defence Estates Day (DED) Lecture 2017 on ‘India’s Roadmap for a World-class Infrastructure’ at DRDO Bhawan here today he said infrastructure investment expands the productive capacity of a nation and raises the productivity of the existing resources.
    
    Shri Jaitley said 95 per cent of the volume of our international trade is still coming through the sea route, 65 per cent of the value of international trade is still coming through the sea route and therefore it is extremely important that efficiency at the ports levels are maintained. He touched upon other aspects of infrastructure development as well, including development of about 400 railways stations, rural connectivity, air connectivity, solar power, telephone connectivity.
    
    Speaking on the occasion , Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr Subhash Bhamre said that excellent infrastructure is a pre-requisite component for propelling growth of the country. He said, to enable deployment of world class infrastructure, all stake holders have to contribute their bit.
    
    Dr Bhamre said the Ministry of Defence is pursuing vigorously for creation of necessary infrastructure and communications along our borders so that our forces can exercise increased vigil. He said the Ministry has liberalised its policy towards accommodating the demands of other Central Departments, State Governments and other local bodies in a fast track manner by sparing defence land for infrastructural projects of roads, flyovers etc. In the past four years, nearly 80 proposals have been cleared for working permission or Government sanction, he added.
    
    Director General of Defence Estates Shri Jojneswar Sharma and other senior officials of MoD were also present on the occasion.

    *****


    
    
    MJPS/NA/DK/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511387) Visitor Counter : 159