      PIB Headquarters

      DEPARTMENT OF POSTS, INDIA Office of the Postmaster General, Chennai City Region, Chennai
      Posted On: 03 MAY 2019 5:43PM by PIB Chennai


    Philatelic Bureau, Anna Road HPO is conducting a Summer Camp for the students to engage the children and sharpen their skills in letter writing and teach them the nuances of Philately so that they can learn to rise as “Stamp Collector/ an amateur Philatelist”. The session will be a combination of information and fun activities. Last year, Summer Camp was held in five batches and 124 students participated.


    This year two batches have successfully concluded, in which 42 students actively participated. Shri Mohan Raman, renowned actor, and Shri S.R. Ramanan, former Director of Meteorological Dept., Chennai, addressed the students and shared their experiences in stamp collection. Both of them are leading Philatelists too. The Summer Camp is mainly intended for the benefit of school children from Class VI to IX. Students of higher classes can also attend, if they desire. The duration of each batch would be for 3 half days and the session would start at 09.30 am and conclude at 12.30 pm. Batches will run from Tuesday to Thursday, every week. (Forthcoming batches would be held on 07 – 09 May; 14 – 16 May; 21 – 23 May; and 28 – 30 May 2019). The Parents have to make their own arrangements for the pickup and drop of their children.


    In the first day of camp, children will be provided inputs on Philately, the king of hobbies. Practical training will also be given to the participating students to prepare stamp book/ exhibits. Selected Exhibits prepared by the students will be displayed in the Permanent Philatelic Exhibition of Anna Road HO, for a period of one month. Eminent Philatelists will also address the students.


    On the second day of camp, inputs will be provided to improve the skill of letter writing among the students. Letters written by great people will be discussed as part of the session. Students will be writing personal letters to their grandparents or friends and posting them at Anna Road Head Post Office, itself.


    On the third day of camp, students will be taken through the complete journey of a letter in Post Office right from letter box clearance to processing and delivery of letters. They will also get a glimpse of different activities of a Post Office including money order booking and payment. A few games on Philately will also be organized.


    At the end of the Camp the children will be able to familiarize themselves with the following:

     1. basic features of postage stamps, its history, kinds and themes etc.
     2. recognize Philatelic jargon collect and organize stamps and other Philatelic materials
     3. prepare stamp books, exhibits, and preservation techniques
     4. Understand of Post Office functions, including Letter Box collection, processing and delivery
     5. improved letter writing skills

    ­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­


    A sum of Rs.250/- only will be charged per student for which the students will be provided a Philatelic Deposit Account and Philately material worth Rs.250. The amount can be paid at Philatelic Bureau, Anna Road HO, Chennai 600 002 on the first day of the camp.


    Teachers / Heads of Schools or parents of interested children are requested to contact the Philatelic Bureau, Anna Road HO, Chennai 600002 for Registration. Filled in Applications can be posted to “The Chief Post Master, Philatelic Bureau, Anna Road HPO, Chennai 600002” or can be forwarded to the email id – philatelypromotion@gmail.com.


    The Summer Camp will be held at the premises of Anna Road Head Post Office, Chennai 600002.

                                   
For further details, please contact
                                   
                                   
044-2854 3199                      
                                   
                                   
99529 87591                        
                                   
                                   
98405 95839                        
                                   
                                   
philatelypromotion@gmail.com       
                                   
                                   

    

    
    (Release ID: 1571579) Visitor Counter : 148
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

   
   
5.