      PIB Headquarters

      S.M.Kalavathi takes over as Advisor, Dot, LSA TN Circle
      Posted On: 10 MAY 2019 5:31PM by PIB Chennai


    Ms. S.M. Kalavathi, ITS has relinquished charge of Chief General Manager, BSNL, Chennai Telephones on the A/N of 9 th May, 2019, on her promotion as Advisor, Tamil Nadu LSA, DoT, Government of India. She assumed charge of the new post as Advisor, DoT, LSA Tamilnadu on 10.05.2019.


    She belongs to the 1981 batch of Indian Telecommunication Service and holds a BE degree in Electronics and Communications from the Anna University and an MBA from the Indira Gandhi National Open University. She has the distinction of being the third lady to enter the Indian Telecom Service and the first lady to become the Chief General Manager of a BSNL circle in the entire country.


    Having specialized in Switching and Transmission systems, she has been instrumental for installation of the first WLL exchange of Tamilnadu, in Pondichery and the National Internet Backbone in Chennai. She has attended many international training programmes like Total Quality Management in Sweden in the year 1991 and National Internet Backbone in Singapore and USA in the year 2000.


    During her tenure as CGM, BSNL, Chennai Telephones, SIM sales touched its peak due to her efficient planning and management of the mobile services. Nearly 1000 mobile sites were added to the CM Vertical, 3G services expanded by 472 number of Tower locations, Infra like battery and power plant were strengthened in about 1000 sites, 880 GSM sites were brought on reliable microwave media, state-of-art MSC has been commissioned which is capable of handling 4G services. During her tenure Four Lakhs customers were added to the Mobile segment of BSNL, CHTD and the per day mobile data usage increased Nine folds.


    CHTD had launched the prestigious wi-fi Hot spot services in 2 Nos. of Tourist locations viz. Shore Temple Mahabalipuram and Kailasanathar Temple, Kancheepuram.


    FTTH service introduced during her period saw a good progress by way of significant increase in the number of connections.


    A total length of 204kms of Optical Fibre cable were laid during her tenure which had enabled transmission services to be maintained with least down time.


    By way of continuous monitoring, she had ensured that communication services were least affected during the Chennai Floods and Wartha Cyclone. The resilience of BSNL’s Network was greatly appreciated by one and all and earned positive feedback from all segments.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571859) Visitor Counter : 177