      PIB Headquarters

      Meet on Prevention, Preparedness & Response to Potential Radiation threats / Emergencies at Kalpakkam
      Posted On: 17 MAY 2019 5:23PM by PIB Chennai


    Indian Association for Radiation Protection, Kalpakkam Chapter (IARP-K) in association with the DAE Units at Kalpakkam organized a Theme Meet on Prevention, Preparedness and Response to Potential Radiation Threats / Emergencies, during 17 th and 18 th May 2019. The objective of this meet is to sensitize the various stakeholders on the challenges of handling threats due to radiological dispersal devices and orphaned radiation sources and also sensitize them on the detection and preparedness for response to such radiological threats. The participants for this meet include members of the Emergency response team (drawn from all the DAE Units at Kalpakkam) who would assist the Emergency Response Centre (ERC) located at Environmental Survey Lab (ESL), Kalpakkam, State Government Officials, Police Officials, Security Personnel and Southern Zone ERC Members.


    The Chief Guest, Dr. K S . Pradeepkumar, Distinguished Scientist &Director, HSEG, BARC inaugurated the meet and delivered the key note address. He elaborated the significant role of the Department of Atomic Energy in Prevention, Preparedness and Response to Potential Radiation threats/ Emergencies. Dr. S. Murali, Head RSSD, BARC emphasized the safe operations of Indian Nuclear Radiation facilities. In his welcome address, Dr B. Venkataraman, Director SQ & RMG, IGCAR highlighted the contribution of IGCAR, MAPS and Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant to the energy requirement of Tamil Nadu. Shri M. Srinivas, Station Director MAPS delivered the Inaugural address and highlighted how nuclear and Radiological safeties are ensured in Nuclear power plants. Mrs P. Thenmozhi IPS, DIG emphasized on regular interaction between uniformed services and the Radiological experts to handle the radiological emergency situations in an effective manner.


    HS&EG, BARC takes care of the radiological safety through the services by their radiation safety experts as well as by R&D related to radiation dosimetry, bio-assay, bio-dosimetry, atmospheric and aquatic dispersion models, development and usage of various radiation detection systems. HS&EG supports DAE’s Nuclear Energy Programme and addresses Nuclear Security issues though Decision Support Systems (IRODOS) for NPPs, IERMON (with > 500 units) developed and installed across India as National Radiation Early Warning System, 25 Emergency Response Centres (DAE-ERCs), collaboration with various DAE Units, national level security agencies and support to regulatory bodies like AERB, BSC and Naval Nuclear Safety Board (NNSB).


    Dr.K S.Pradeepkumar under whose leadership, The DAE-ECR was instrumental in handling the famous Mayapuri Radiation emergency, talked on the issues / concerns related to Radiological Safety and Radiation Emergencies and on how these are addressed in DAE Facilities and at National Level, based on the lessons learnt from ‘Hiroshima to Fukushima’ and other internationally reported Nuclear and Radiological Accidents / Emergencies. Emergency arising out of lost/stolen radioactive sources as well as malicious using radioactive material is increasing in the whole world. Various measures taken by DAE under the leadership of BARC including the systems developed, training of security officials etc, was explained to the audience.


    Dr. Pradeep Kumar quoting the detailed features of nuclear facilities assured the audience that the probability of a nuclear accident which can cause any health effects to the public can be completely ruled out.


    
     ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572178) Visitor Counter : 144