      PIB Headquarters

      World Cancer Day 2019: Early detection of cancer significantly improves patient survival say experts.
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2019 6:13PM by PIB Chennai


    Dr Shanta, Chairman, Cancer Institute, Chennai has said that information on cancer should be included in the school curriculum to spread awareness on early detection leading to improved patient survival. She stressed the need for urgent action to increase early stage cancer detection, screening and diagnosis to significantly improve cancer patient’s chances of survival.


    Speaking at a sensitization programme organised for media personnel on occasion of World Cancer Day, in Chennai, she said, creating awareness to younger generation will help them adopt healthy life style and avoid habits that could expose them to the risk of cancer. She said over 50 percent of cancer is curable if detected early.


    Dr Shanta said, World Cancer Day 2019 is taking place under the theme of ‘I Am and I Will’ and aims to inspire action from the individuals, the health community and governments to improve awareness and access to early detection, screening and diagnose. She called upon the media to spread this theme and provide information on health on a daily basis to reiterate the message. This would be helpful in dispelling myth and misinformation on cancer leading to increase in survival rates and quality of life.


    Speaking on the legal perspective, Justice Govinda Raj said the media plays a vital role in disseminating the information on cancer to people. He said, while a judgement on a particular case draws the attention of a few people connected with a case, a good report in the media will have a wider impact. Justice Govinda Raj called upon the media to advocate and report more on ways to fight cancer.


    Stressing the role of media in Cancer control, Shri N. Ram, Chairman, The Hindu group of publications, said every media person should equip themselves with correct information to write effectively to combat cancer and spread of misinformation. He said the media plays an important role in influencing government in designing policies which are equitable. The social media is a platform, if used carefully and effectively could spread correct information on cancer.


    Speaking on the role of media in ‘Demystifying Cancer Myths’, Shri Mariappan, Additional DG, PIB, Chennai said, the media units of I&B ministry play a major role in disseminating correct information and in reaching out to people in rural areas. The health insurance schemes introduced by the government of India and the state government enable the poor now a days to avail treatment in empaneled private hospitals. Media should popularize these schemes among the people for their benefit, he added. I&B ministry units effectively use the traditional media to create awareness among the people to spread the message that cancer is curable if it is detected early, he said.


    EM/GB/NT


    

    
    (Release ID: 1562607) Visitor Counter : 41
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil