      PIB Headquarters

      International workshop with delegates from 15 countries formulated the framework for coastal vulnerability to be adopted across the IOCINDIO Countries
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2020 5:12PM by PIB Chennai


    The Central Indian Ocean (IOCINDIO) Leadership Workshop for Developing the “Regional Framework for Coastal Vulnerability towards the Safety, Security and Sustainable Development of Member States in the Indian Ocean” was conducted at National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT), Chennai from 06 to 07 January 2020.


    This Leadership workshop aimed at bringing together the experts to identify key issues, parameters and methodology for characterizing the vulnerability related to specific impacts such as erosion, flooding, sea level rise etc. The workshop helped the IOCINDIO countries to address the problems at various dimensions of vulnerability relevant to physical, socio-economic and environmental impact in a more specific manner for mitigation purposes.


    The workshop attracted a great number of accomplished senior scientists together with mid career and young enthusiastic professionals and students both from the IOCINDIO region and outside, from 15 countries such as Australia, Bangladesh, Congo, France, Kuwait, Maldives, Russia Tunisia, Tanzania, Sri Lanka, Saudi Arabia, UK, USA and from across India.


    The workshop reviewed the foundation of coastal vulnerability, the state of art, the evolution of the theory for assessment of coastal vulnerability, current studies, research and applications up to date with case studies from the region and abroad. Participating member country representatives presented the status of the national efforts on coastal vulnerability at country level. Based on inputs from the participants finalized the framework for Regional Coastal Vulnerability pertaining to specific hazards, impacts to be adopted across the IOCINDIO Countries, to help mitigation operations.


    The workshop was conducted and facilitated by Dr.Justin Ahanhanzo (Regional Liaison Officer, IOC-UNESCO). Dr. M.A.Atmanand (Director-NIOT and IOCINDIO-UNESCO) and Dr. M.V. Ramanamurthy (Director, NCCR). Representatives from NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) also attended the meeting and shared their views.


    *****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1598641) Visitor Counter : 78
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil