      PIB Headquarters

      3.7 Kg gold worth Rs.1.54 Crore seized by Customs at Chennai Airport . Two Arrested
      Posted On: 21 JAN 2020 6:16PM by PIB Chennai


    Air Intelligence Chennai Customs based on Information booked two cases on Sunday and one on Monday morning.


    On Monday morning one AhamedKabir, 44, of Theni who arrived from Abu Dhabi via Bahrain by Gulf Air flight GF 068 was intercepted at exit as he was walking in a rather hurried manner and appeared nervous. On questioning he gave evasive replies. His personal search as well as that of check in bags was carried out. On examination of his bag one emergency light was found inside which appeared to be unusually heavy. On dismantling the light 23 gold bars of ten tola each totally weighing 2.68 Kg valued at Rs. 1.11 crore were found ingeniously concealed inside the battery compartment. The same were recovered and seized under Customs Act.Passenger was arrested.


    Earlier on Sunday nightoneAbdul Jaleel, 29, ofKozhikode(Kerala)who arrived from Abu Dhabi via Bahrain by Gulf Airflight GF 052 was intercepted at exit. On search of his check-in-bag one electrical juicer was found concealed among his personal effects. The juicer appeared to be unusually heavy. On dismantling the juicerone rectangular gold sheet weighing 438 grams valued at Rs. 18.11 lakhs wasfound ingeniouslyconcealed inside the motor portion of the juicer. The same was recovered and seizedunder Customs Act..


    In another case Sunday morning based on information one Sharafudheen, 23, of Kozhikode (Kerala) who arrived from Dubai by Indigo Flight 6E 66 was intercepted at exit. On search of his check-in-bag one rice cooker was found concealed among his personal effects. The cooker appeared to be unusually heavy. On dismantling one ring shaped gold ingot weighing 610 grams and valued at Rs. 25.22 lakhs was found concealed inside the heating plate of rice cooker. The same was seized under Customs Act 1962. Passenger was arrested.


    In allthree cases 3.7 Kg gold valued at Rs. 1.54 crore was recovered and seized under Customs Act 1962.Two passengers were arrested.


    Further investigation is under process, according to the press release issued by the Commissioner of Customs, Chennai International Airport, Chennai.


    *****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1600034) Visitor Counter : 18
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil