      PIB Headquarters

      Workshop on CLSS Awas Portal in Chennai
      Posted On: 23 JAN 2020 6:43PM by PIB Chennai


    Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), Govt. of India in coordination with Central Nodal Agencies HUDCO, NHB and SBI has successfully organized one day exposure workshop on CLSS Awas Portal (CLAP) on 23rd Jan 2020 in Chennai, Tamil Nadu for all Primary Lending Institutions (PLI's) of South Zone of India. CLSS Awas Portal (CLAP ): Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has launched a web-based real time monitoring system CLSS Awas Portal (CLAP) on 25 November 2019. CLAP is a common platform where all stakeholders i.e. MOHUA, Central Nodal Agencies, Primary Lending Institutions, Beneficiaries and Citizens are integrated. The portal has developed a tracking system for beneficiaries to track their application status through unique ID starting from submission of application till subsidy release. Additionally, beneficiaries will also be able to receive application status through SMS alert at different stages. http s :// pmayucla p.g ov.in /


    125 officials from 60 PLIS and Govt. of Tamil Nadu have attended this workshop. During the workshop, detailed presentations were made on Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS) performance, CLAP Portal, Server architecture process under CLAP from Process 1 to Process 4 along with roles and responsibilities of each stakeholder concerned. State Bank of India has also shared their experience on ease of subsidy released through CLAP. During the workshop, a detailed interactive session was held where PLIs raised their issues and requirements . PLIS were also requested to ensure data quality and 100% usage of CLAP website and mobile application by the beneficiaries. CLSS success stories and operational challenges were discussed at the workshop. The PLIs were encouraged to raise more CLSS claims from south India.


    The awareness on ANGIKAAR- Campaign for change management, was also shared with the PLIS, where PLIS are required to conduct Financial Literacy camps for CLSS beneficiaries in convergence with State Government, since the CLSS is being implemented by Primary Lending Institutions (PLIS) through Central Nodal Agencies (CNAs). It is proposed to outreach 5.67 lakh CLSS beneficiaries of EWS/LIG category under ANGIKAAR through Financial Literacy. Further, as per the extant norms of Ministry of Finance (MoF) and as per the Financial Literacy- Model scheme issued by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide circular dated 4th February 2009, wherein it has been mandated (i) to provide financial counselling services through face-to-face interaction as well as through other medium including education on responsible borrowing, proactive and early savings and offering debt counselling to individuals, who are indebted to formal and/or informal financial sectors; (ii) to educate people to various financial products and services available from formal financial sector and (iii) to take up such activities that promotes financial literacy, awareness of the banking services and financial planning. The W orkshop was helpful for PLIs in detailed understanding of the processes with question answer session, where there was active participation from PLIS, i.e. Banks and Housing Finance Institutions (HFCs), according to a press release issued by the HUDCO Regional Office, Chennai.


    *****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1600378) Visitor Counter : 22
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil