      PIB Headquarters

      HIGHLIGHTS OF INAUGURAL SPEECH BY SHRI. MAHENDRA NATH PANDEY, UNION MINISTER OF SKILL DEVELOPMENT AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP AT THE INDIA INTERNATIONAL LEATHER FAIR 2020, CHENNAI
      Posted On: 31 JAN 2020 8:13PM by PIB Chennai


    I am pleased to be here at the inaugural ceremony of the 35 th edition of India International Leather Fair 2020 in Chennai. This specialized event has established itself as a premier leather event in South-Asia region. The fair represents a mega celebration of India’s leather industry.


    I am happy to note that over 450 leading companies from India and abroad have taken part in the event. These include 150 exhibitors from overseas. Significantly, Brazil, China, France, Germany and Italy are setting-up their National Pavilions. Presence of considerable number of foreign companies in the IILF 2020 is an attestation of the growing stature of Indian market.


    Undoubtedly, the fair extends appeal not only to India’s traditional markets but also there are many emerging and expanding markets for Indian brands globally.


    Indian leather Industry holds a prominent place in the Indian economy. This sector is known for its consistency in high export earnings and it is among the top ten foreign exchange earners for the country. The export of footwear, leather and leather products from India reached a value of US$ 5.69 billion during 2018-19.


    Indeed, due to economic slowdown in the contemporary world, the industry is striving hard to achieve the business target. With new initiatives and multi-sectoral reforms, the Government is committed to support the industry to further improve its competitiveness and brand excellence globally.


    India’s leather industry is predominantly, a MSME - driven sector as well as employment intensive, providing jobs to about 4.42 million people, mostly from the weaker sections of the society. Women employment is most noticeable in leather products sector with about 30 per cent share. The industry is skill- deficient and there is an urgent need to enable youth to take vocation in leather and allied industry with relevant skill training and develop a world class entrepreneurship that will help them in securing a better livelihood.


    In view to ensure high standards of quality, the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship has taken several initiatives to equip the young professionals with various schemes such as, Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana. Besides, all the stake holders including apex bodies, captains of the industry, institutions, practitioners, agencies and corporate have to come together to contribute to this fast developing sector. Apart from supporting the traditional leather artisans, we need to focus on innovative eco-friendly solutions, practices, models and other relevant research in the skill development space. While adopting global standards, the leather industry has to fulfill training skills gap which will positively impact and create a multiplier effect in the skill development space.


    I am sure, mega events such as India International Leather Fair are the ideal platforms to understand and actualize the skill requirement and formalizing the strategy for immediate implementation. The Government is ready to extend all possible support to the leather industry.


    I have confidence that Indian leather and allied industries truly have the mettle to create world class brands, and would take this opportunity to appreciate the Indian leather exporters for their performance in terms of making a mark in fiercely competitive global markets.


    It is hoped that the concurrent thematic display and ancillary activities of the fair such as technical seminars will add a new dimension to the fair. I am confident that this specialized trade event will boost business and open new avenues for investment, joint ventures and collaborations, improving economic growth by providing access to potential markets.


    As I see it, IILF 2020 is also a confluence on ‘Knowledge Economy’, which is designed to fuel trade, foster investments and incubate joint ventures in technology-intensive sectors and forge new industry-academia collaborations and partnerships. I am sure that the event will give a much-needed fillip to India’s emerging economy.


    All the stakeholders of this annual event including India Trade Promotion Organization, Council for Leather Export and all apex leather bodies including the Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI), Indian Shoe Federation (ISF), Indian Finished Leather Manufacturers & Exporters Association (IFLMEA) and Indian Footwear Component Manufacturers’ Association (IFCOMA) deserve accolades for regularly promoting India’s brand excellence as a leading manufacturer and supplier of high quality leather goods globally.


    I take this opportunity to convey my best wishes to ITPO, CLE, all other apex bodies and participants from India and abroad, I declare the 35 th edition of India International Leather Fair 2020, Chennai open.


    Jai Hind!


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601403) Visitor Counter : 42
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil