      Ministry of Shipping

      Important to empower the coastal community who remains at the vanguard of the country’s coastal security: Shri Mansukh L. Mandaviya
      
      Shipping Ministry is mulling a proposal of providing deep-sea vessels at a subsidized price to the fishermen community in coastal areas

      Posted On: 20 DEC 2019 7:12PM by PIB Mumbai

    It is immensely important to empower the coastal community who remains at the vanguard of the country’s coastal security, said Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Ministry of Shipping and Minister of State for Chemical & Fertilizers, Shri Mansukh L. Mandaviya at a seminar, here today. Shri Mandaviya further stated, Shipping Ministry is mulling a proposal of providing deep-sea vessels at a subsidized price to the fishermen community in coastal areas, so as to increase fish production and flourishing of sea-food industry, that will in-turn also increase employment in the sector. He said, development of blue-economy and shipbuilding industry is being focused upon. Speaking on “Challenges of Coastal Community and Their Role in Nation Building” in the seminar organized by Bhonsala Military College – Kanhoji Angre Maritime Research Institute & University of Mumbai’s Department of Civis and Politics, , the Minister stated, developmen t of coastal shipping will lead to prosperity of coastal community.


    Speaking about the Government’s focus on development of Inland Waterways and Coastal Shipping, Shri Mandaviya said, cargo shipping through inland waterways will considerably increase in the coming four years. He reiterated that transportation through waterways will reduce logistics cost for cargo shipping and tame price-hike. Referring to development of Inland Waterways on Brahmaputra river from Dhubri to Dibrugarh and then through Bangladesh to Sundarbans has thrown open new opportunities for development of North East India.


    The Minister said, Inland Waterways and river-transportation will be promoted in every state. The Shipping Ministry is exploring opportunities for building jetties and promoting cruise tourism, said the Minister. He mentioned, start of water taxis in and around Mumbai will lead to decongestion of roads in peak traffic hours. Referring to India’s rich maritime history, the Minister stated the proverb “One who rules the sea, rules the world” and said, Government is committed to revive India’s glory in shipping.


    The dignitaries who participated in the seminar included Capt (IN) Alok Bansal (Retd) and Vice-Chancellor of Dapoli Krushi Vidyapith Dr Sanjay Sawant among others.


    *****


    RT/SC/DR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597121) Visitor Counter : 132