      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Asian Development bank aided 2 Million $ to SATAT scheme
      Posted On: 23 DEC 2019 4:53PM by PIB Mumbai


    Bharat Petroleum, Mumbai, collaboration with the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas has organized a new revolution in transportation fuel 'Road Show' on 'Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation'(SATAT) in Navi Mumbai today.


    Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation' scheme (SATAT), was launched on October 15, 2018, by Union Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan.


    To create awareness among the concerned entities, industries and society of this scheme such roadshows are organized by the Bharat Petroleum all over the country.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Vijay Sharma, Director, MOP & NG, said that there is a need to save future generations from increasing pollution of air, water, and the increasing global heat which is caused, raised of seawater level by 2.5 cm every year. He further said that the percentage of carbon emission of developed countries is more than the developing countries, but the need of the hour is to adopt security norms by developing countries too. Compressed Natural Gas (Methane produces from west of sugar cane) is a fuel that can be used in place of gasoline, diesel fuel and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). The SATAT scheme has provided us facilities to recreate power from waste substances like cow dung, waste of sugar, food waste etc.


    Biogas is produced naturally through a process of anaerobic decomposition from waste / bio-mass sources like agriculture residue, cattle dung, sugar cane press mud, municipal solid waste, sewage treatment plant waste, etc. After purification, it is compressed and called CBG, which has a pure methane content of over 90%.


    Sharma further said, understanding the importance of clean and green environment, Asian Development Bank provided aid of $ 2 million to adopt processing projects of 1G ethanol, 2 ethanol, ESMA, and biomass supply chain, etc. He said SATAT was launched with a four-pronged agenda of utilizing more than 62 million metric tonnes of waste generated every year in India, cutting down import dependence, supplementing job creation in the country and reducing vehicular emissions and pollution from burning of agricultural/organic waste. Since 2018, 67 SATAT were launched all over the country.


    On this occasion, Shri Deepak Prajapati, M/S CEID, Shri Sanjiv POL, DGM, Bio Fuels, BPCL, Shri Nitin Shete, M/S Praj Industries, Mr. Kamal Adwani, AGM, the Shyamrao Vithal Co-operative Bank were present and made presentations on CBG Technology, Bio Fuel, CBG EOI, etc.


    ***


    BG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597231) Visitor Counter : 400
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi