      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      ‘Hunar Haats’ have proved to be an effective and successful mission to preserve and promote India’s indigenous traditional legacy of master artisans and craftsmen: Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi
      
      ‘Hunar Haat’ has proved to be “Empowerment Exchange” for master artisans and craftsmen: Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi

      Posted On: 22 DEC 2019 3:42PM by PIB Mumbai

    Hon’ble Governor of Maharashtra Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today inaugurated ‘Hunar Haat’, which is being organised by Union Minority Affairs Ministry from 20th to 31st December, 2019 at MMRDA Ground, Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai.


    On this occasion, Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari said that ‘Hunar Haat’ is an effective platform to promote hidden talent of master artisans, craftsmen from across the country. ‘Hunar Haat’ has brought their hidden talent before the entire world.


    Shri Koshyari further said that programmes such as ‘Hunar Haat’ of Union Minority Affairs Ministry are strengthening our economy by financially empowering the needy artisans. The Hon’ble Governor visited stalls at ‘Hunar Haat’ and encouraged the artisans from across the country.


    On the occasion, Shri Naqvi said that ‘Hunar Haat’ have proved to be an effective and successful mission to preserve and promote India’s indigenous traditional legacy of master artisans and craftsmen which was on the verge of extinction.

    Shri Naqvi today said that while on one hand ‘Hunar Haat’ promotes traditional arts of master artisans and craftsmen, on the other hand, thousands of artisans and people associated with them including a large number of women artisans have been provided employment opportunities through ‘Hunar Haat’.


    Shri Naqvi said that ‘Hunar Haats’, being organised at prominent places across the country, have proved to be financially beneficial for the needy artisans and craftsmen as each ‘Hunar Haat’ generates business worth crores of rupees for indigenous handmade exquisite products of artisans and craftsmen. These artisans are receiving orders for their products not only from domestic markets but also from international markets. ‘Hunar Haat’ has proved to be “Empowerment Exchange” for master artisans and craftsmen.


    “Ministry of Minority Affairs has sanctioned 100 ‘Hunar Hubs’ in different parts of the country in the first 100 days of this government. Training is being provided to master artisans, craftsmen and traditional culinary experts according to modern needs in these ‘Hunar Hubs’, Shri Naqvi added.


    The next ‘Hunar Haat’ will be organised at Lucknow (10th to 20th January, 2020); Hyderabad (11th to 19th January, 2020); Chandigarh (from 20th January to 1st February, 2020) and Indore (08th to 16th February, 2020), Shri Naqvi informed.


    In ‘Hunar Haat’, at Mumbai, more than 180 stalls have been set up where about 400 master artisans, craftsmen, including a large number of women artisans, from across the country are participating. The artisans have brought with them indigenous, exquisite pieces of Handicrafts & Handloom work from every corner of the country. People coming at ‘Hunar Haat’ in Mumbai are also enjoying traditional delicacies from different states of the country.


    Besides, traditional dance, music, Kawwali and other cultural programmes presented every day by renowned artists are also a major attraction for the visitors. Renowned artists like Hans Raj Hans, Sayra Khan, Supriya Joshi, Rahul Joshi, Farhan Sabri, Trannum Mallik, Rahul Joshi, Prem Bhatia, Harjot Kaur, Mickey Singh Narula, Mukesh Pancholi, Gul Saxena will enthral the audience with their performances at ‘Hunar Haat’ in Mumbai.


    Member of Legislative Assembly from Maharashtra Shri Asish Shellar, Minority Affairs Ministry Secretary Shri Pramod Kumar Das and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    ***


    MAS/MC/RS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597178) Visitor Counter : 647