      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Hydroponic Farming – boon to farmers- Gadkari
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2019 7:32PM by PIB Mumbai


    MSME-DI Nagpur organized 2-day Workshop on Hydroponic and Organic Farming and Fruits and vegetables processing during 16 th -17 th December, 2019 at MSME-DI, Nagpur. The programme was outcome of conceptualization of Hon’ble Union Minister Shri Nitin Gadkari. Shri P.M.Parlewar, Director, MSME-DI, Nagpur, Shri Girish Gandhi, President, Krishi Vikas Pratishthan, Adv.Manohar Parchure, Farmer and Entrepreneur, Shri Naresh Arsade, Joint Secretary, KVP, Shri V.R.Sirsath, Dy.Director, Shri Rahul Mishra, Asstt. Director and Shri <VK Jha, Investigator, MSME-DI Nagpur were present on the dais. Hydroponic farming has become the need of hour. It can increase the productivity of farmers as production cost is low. This technology is very easy and beneficial for farmers. With this object, this workshop was organized. It has covered all aspects of hydroponic and organic farming and farmers as well as entrepreneurs took the benefit of the programme. Such type of programmes will be taken up for all districts of Vidarbha region by MSME-DI.


    Shri P.M.Parlewar, Director welcomed all the dignitaries on the dais and faculties. While explaining the objective of the programme he said hydroponic farming can increase the productivity of the land resulting in the employment generation. To increase the productivity with low cost, hydroponic farming is the best option. MSME-DI will try to arrange the equipments needed for hydroponic farming at the minimum cost. He said that MSME and agriculture are related to each other.


    In his address, Shri Girish Gandhi, President, KVP said that Organic farming is developing the world over. If farming is to be looked as a business there is a need to change the mindset. Professional attitude is needed while doing farming. He expressed satisfaction over the huge response from the participants and said that this is a very good Workshop organized by MSME-DI and to take the maximum benefit of the programme.


    Adv. Manohar Parchure, Entrepreneur said that for healthy life, there is no alternative to organic farming. For making farming profitable, expenditure should be reduced, and for this, organic farming is the best option than conventional farming. India can export organic food products the world over as there is a huge demand for it. He stressed that farming is the only occupation where there is no loss if done organically.


    Shri Manoj Jawanjal, farmer and entrepreneur said that for farming devotion and patience are needed. He said that Multi layer cropping is necessary to increase productivity. Demand for organic products is increasing day by day


    During the technical session, Prof. Atul Dhok, Director, MAFSU gave power point presentation on fodder for cattle through hydroponic farming. He said that though India is number one in milk production, there is huge deficit in demand and supply of dry fodder due to non availability of horizontal land, demand is more than supply.


    Dr R.P.Gajbhiye, PDKV, Nagpur said that the interest of farmers in soilless cultivation is rapidly increasing. He explained the factors for selecting the technique and also various methods of hydroponic farming, like root dipping technique, floating technique, capillary action technique, grow bag technique, hanging bag technique pot technique etc. Dr. R.M.Ghodpage, PDKV. Smt Maithili Kowe, Manager, NABARD, gave power point presentation on the schemes of NABARD, Shri Sharmaji Horticulture department spoke on the schemes of Horticulture department. Dr. Raut, Professor from Agriculture College, Nagpur gave presentation on fruits and vegetables processing. On the second day, the participants were taken to the visit to fruits and vegetables processing laboratory. The programme was co-ordinated by Shri MVK Jha, Investigator, MSME-DI who also proposed vote of thanks.


    Nagpur PIB/DR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597146) Visitor Counter : 632