      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB is the face of Union Govt and serves authentic information about central schemes, said senior journalists of Raigad at Vartalap media workshop
      Posted On: 26 DEC 2019 5:14PM by PIB Mumbai


    Pen, Raigad, December 26, 2019


    The senior journalists of Raigad district urged their fellow journalist colleagues working in rural and district level to avail authentic information from all possible channels and know the nitty-gritties of the welfare schemes before disseminating it to the public. Speaking at ‘Vartalap-Media Workshop’ organized by Press Information Bureau, Mumbai, for the journalists of Raigad district, Shri Manoj Jalnawalla, veteran journalist and President of Navi Mumbai Press Club said “PIB is the face of Union Government” and opined in favour of following PIB press releases to gather knowledge about Union Government matters. Shri Anil Bhole and Shri Vijay Mokal, present and former Presidents of Raigad Press Club, expressed happiness about PIB’s role in reaching out to rural media. PIB’s outreach programme for rural media will educate them about finding access to information about central schemes, said Shri Anil Bhole.


    Speaking on the occasion, veteran journalist and Chief Editor of Daily Punya Nagari, Smt Rahi Bhide said, an independent tribunal is needed for dealing with cases related to crime against women. She raised a question as to whether contemporary journalism highlights the truthful and practical side of women’s life and added, society will suffer from imbalance if it is not thought about. She feels, separate health plans and schemes should be made for women. She also said, women coming from poverty-stricken background must be given priority in welfare schemes. Calling for keeping the morale high for the women of the country, she described “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” and other women related welfare schemes of Union Government and called for dissemination of information about theses schemes in a proper manner so as to benefit women.


    The Chief Manager of State Bank of India, Pen Branch, Shri Dharmendra Singh was also present among the dignitaries and explained in details about PM Mudra Yojana to the district and rural journalists of Raigad.


    Veteran journalist of Raigad, Shri Jayant Patil urged rural journalists to follow PIB’s information which can act for them like an insight to the whole country and global matters. In all, 50 journalists from all over Raigad attended the media workshop. Smt Bhavna Gokhale, Assistant Director of PIB Mumbai, made a presentation on Journalists’ Welfare Scheme to the participating mediapersons.


    ***


    BG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597707) Visitor Counter : 77
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi