      PIB Headquarters

      RBI Financial Literacy Pavilion at Numaish 2018 - Hyderabad
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2018 7:45PM by PIB Hyderabad


    ‘The RBI Financial Literacy Pavilion put up in Numaish 201 8 was inaugurated on January 10 , 201 8 by Shri R.Subramanian, Regional Director for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Reserve Bank of India, Hyderabad. Senior Officers of Reserve Bank of India (RBI),Shri P. Narottam Reddy, Vice President of the Exhibition Society, Financial Literacy Counsellors, Officials of NPCI, Andhra Bank and SBI also attended the function. In his inaugural address, Regional Director, RBI stated that RBI is participating in Numaish from 2007 onwards and will continue to participate in the future also since Numaish is a very good opportunity to disseminate awareness and educate people about functions and working of Reserve Bank of India. Regional Director touched upon the main issues that are attracting the attention of the common man and provided clarifications on the same. He further stated that participation in Numaish will provide a great opportunity to spread financial literacy among different sections of the society. He stated that every year, RBI takes up a relevant current topic as theme of RBI Pavilion and this year, the theme is ‘’Consumer Education and Protection’’.


    General Manager, Reserve Bank of India, Dr.S.Subbaiah has stated that RBI Pavilion has been refurbished with material on Consumer Education, role and functions of RBI, Government social security schemes, etc. He has stated that till the end of the Exhibition, besides RBI officials, Financial Literacy Counsellors and officials of NPCI (National Payment Corporation of India) will also interact with the visitors. Audio and video presentations in various languages will be presented at the venue for the benefit of entire family members, visiting the RBI Pavilion. Comic books, pamphlets and brochures etc are also distributed. Quiz competition on various banking related matters are also conducted and winners are awarded small prizes. He further stated that a coordinated approach by RBI, banks, financial institutions and the Exhibition Society to provide hands on training and awareness to the visitors / students to create awareness on various banking related topics, will be pursued.


    A small skit to educate the people on the need for saving, not to fall prey to fictitious offers, using the bank credit for productive purposes etc. was also presented on the occasion.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1516289) Visitor Counter : 189