      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      DAVP SPECIAL PHOTO EXHIBITION ON 69 YEARS OF THE INDIAN REPUBLIC DAY
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2018 6:39PM by PIB Hyderabad


    The Salar Jung Museum as part of its educational activities has opened a special photo exhibition on 69 years of the Indian Republic in collaboration with Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP) Govt. of India.


    The exhibition was inaugurated by Sri Sandeep Shandilya, commissioner of Police, Cyberabad at 4.00 PM today ie Thursday at the first floor of the Main Building. The exhibition displays the Constitution of India. The exhibition displays 250 rare photographs focusing on the high lights of Indian freedom movements and portraits of great freedom fighters and achievements of the Indian Republic in the past 69 years.


    Shri Shandilya said it’s a good feeling going though the photo exhibition as it takes the viewer into the historical period. By seeing the photographs it will inspire the new generation and inform everyone on the struggle our freedom fighters fought to get the Independence. While lauding the DAVP for the exhibition, the commissioner of police appealed to one all to visit the exhibition and take peep into the hoary days of India’s struggle for freedom.


    The exhibition is divided into 9 segments. The pre independent struggle from 1857 till 1947 with rare portraits of several freedom fighters, the Independence celebration segment, similarly Lord Mountbatten addressing the Independence Day session of Constituent Assembly on 15 th August 1947, a photograph of Rajendra Prasad paying respect to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat is also there.


    In the of the Republic of India in English is put on display along with original constitution of India text. A photo showing swearing ceremony of Sardar Patel and group photograph of sworn-in Union Ministers is also on display. The exhibition also displays rare photographs of 1971 Bangladesh liberation movement and visit by former Prime Minister Late Indira Gandhi to Pokran in 1974 on display. In the Vajpayee era segment, achievements by the then Government and Kargil war are on display.


    The exhibition displays portraits of our Presidents and our Prime Minister along with the President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister shri Narendra Modi photographs in serial order.


    In the last segment i.e Narendra Modi era, path breaking policies like, formation of BRICS, former president of USA, Barrack Obama visit to India and Swachh Bharat photos are shown.


    The exhibition will be kept open till 5 th February 2018.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517926) Visitor Counter : 36