      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      DAVP PHOTO EXHIBITION AT KENDRIYA SADAN, KOTI, HYDERABAD
      Posted On: 29 JAN 2018 7:09PM by PIB Hyderabad


    In order to pay a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his 150th birth anniversary, India has pledged to become Open Defecation Free and clean by 2nd October 2019. It is under the mandate of the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), launched on 2nd October 2014, that this objective is slowly but steadily being pursued and achieved, while gradually evolving into a ‘Jan andolan’ in the process.


    A multi-pronged strategy is being used by the Government of India to implement SBM-Urban which includes creation of an enabling environment for states and cities to roll out SBM at their levels by empowering and building their capacities, while simultaneously encouraging citizens and other stakeholders to actively participate in the Swachh Bharat Mission.


    A survey conducted to rank cities on various sanitation and cleanliness parameters. Swachh Survekshan 2016 was conducted among 73 top cities of India followed by Swachh Survekshan 2017 covering 434 AMRUT cities. Emboldened by the success of the initiative, GoI will now be conducting the third round of Swachh Survekshan in January-February 2018, covering all 4041 statutory towns in India.


    Additionally, this year the survey will be covering all 4041 towns which is a massive leap from last year. In order to meet the challenge of better quality of the survey and the large-scale conduct across 4041 cities this year’s methodology and parameters have advanced along with systematic document verification and validation measures. Swachh Sarvekshan has become a significant measure of India’s sanitation status.


    As part of GoI initiative, the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP) is organizing three-day photo exhibition on “”Swatch Bharat” to bring awareness among people to keep their premises clean and green. The second phase started from January 29th to 31st, 2018. The first phase was held at CGO Towers in Kavadiguda on from January 22nd, 2018.


    The 3-day photo exhibition was inaugurated by Addl Director General (Region) Press Information Bureau (PIB) Shri E Mariappan by lighting the lamp. Shri E Mariappan called upon the employees to maintain the premises clean and tidy. He said clean and green is "the concept" in the present world and for happy and healthy living one should adopt to the "swatch Bharat " concept. He said Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi started the mission Swatch Bharat and want the country to be clean and green by 2020, 150 years of Mahatma Gandhi birth anniversary. He said by achieving the Swatch Bharat mission the people will be paying homage to the Mahatma. He said the Government offices should be kept neat and clean not only its offices but environs too. Central Public Works Department Chief Engineer Shri NN SS Rao informed the efforts of CPWD to keep its premises clean and green. He lauded the efforts of DAVP for organising the photo exhibition. Shri Devendra Jt Director Directorate Field Publicity, Hyderabad, also participated while Shri Suresh Dharmapuri, Exhibition officer, DAVP, welcomed the gathering.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518257) Visitor Counter : 69
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu