      PIB Headquarters

      Dr. DINESH SRIVASTAVA IS THE NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE FOR NUCLEAR FUEL COMPLEX (NFC)
      Posted On: 31 JAN 2018 5:20PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Dr. Dinesh Srivastava, Distinguished Scientist, has taken over as Chief Executive, Nuclear Fuel Complex (NFC) on January 31, 2018, consequent on the retirement of Shri G. Kalyanakrishnan on superannuation. In this capacity, Dr. Srivastava will also be the Chairman of the NFC Board. Prior to this assignment, he was holding the position of Deputy Chief Executive, NFC. Previously Dr. Srivastava had worked for three decades in Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Mumbai and is a senior Professor in Homi Bhabha National Institute (HBNI), Mumbai.


    Dr. Srivastava has contributed exclusively in the development of advanced structural materials of extreme strategic value for Nuclear Energy program in India. Target of his work has been on self-reliant development of critical nuclear components for the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE). His basic research studies on physical and mechanical metallurgy, thermo-mechanical processing and irradiation damage of Zirconium, Titanium and low alloy steels led to successful processing of these materials. Some of them are high creep resistant pressure tube, high burn-up fuel cladding tube and reactor pressure vessel.


    As Deputy Chief Executive (Fuels & FRF), NFC, Dr. Srivastava has ably demonstrated outstanding performance in NFC’s achievement of record production of fuel assemblies, in addition to meeting the production requirement of reactor components for the forthcoming 500 MWe Prototype Fast Breeder Reactor (PFBR), being constructed at Kalpakkam.


    A Metallurgical Engineer from the University of Roorkee, Dr. Srivastava joined the 28 th batch of BARC Training School, Mumbai in 1984. Subsequently, he was posted to BARC, Mumbai and served in various capacities up to March 2017. He has obtained Doctorate degree from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru.


    Dr. Srivastava has been the recipient of many Honours and several prestigious Awards viz., ROPA Fellow, UK (1998-2000); Binani Gold Medal from the Indian Institute of Metals (2005); DAE Science & Technology Excellence Award (2007); Homi Bhabha Science & Technology Award (2009); DAE Science & Technology Group Award (2012); National Metallurgist Day Award (2015); and Vasavik Award for Science & Technology (2016).


    Dr. Srivastava is the Life Member of the Indian Nuclear Society (INS), Indian Society for Non-destructive Testing (ISNT), Indian Institute of Metals (IIM), Materials Research Society of India (MRSI) and Magnetic Society of India (MSI). He is also the Fellow of Electron Microscopy Society of India (EMSI).


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518442) Visitor Counter : 12