      Ministry of Communications

      RESKILLING CRITICAL FOR DIGITAL INCLUSION: SHRI RAVI SHANKAR PRASAD
      Posted On: 19 FEB 2018 6:53PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Union Minister of Communications, Law & IT said that the aim of Digital India is to bridge the digital gap and make technology more accessible, inclusive and affordable to the common people. Addressing a press conference at the World Congress of Information Technology (WCIT) here today, he said that about six crore Indians would become digitally literate in the next two, three years of them, one crore are already digital literate, he said.


    Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad said that today digital services are available even in towns across the country through BPOs. The minister said that there is a clear need to reskill people today and equip them for the new digital challenges. He said disruptive technologies create more jobs than they take away.


    In response to a question, the minister said that a committee has been set up by the government to study the proposed Data Privacy Bill and will submit a report soon. In the name of privacy, corrupt and terrorist activities will not be allowed, he said.


    The minister said that the future skills platform has identified 8 disruptive technologies which has identified 55 job roles that will impact individuals, companies and governments. The minister said that he had fruitful discussions with experts from Bangladesh, Sweden and Armenia.


    NASSCOM and the Ministry of Information Technology (MEITY) have signed an MOU to collaboratively foster, cultivate and strengthen reskilling initiatives, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad said that with advent of new technologies like block chain and Artificial Intelligence reskilling is critical for digital inclusion.


    Shri A.P. Sawhey, Secretary, Information Technology, Government of Inida, Shri R. Chandra Sekhar, President, NASSCOM and Shri Mohit Thukral NASSCOM, Executive Member were also present.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520977) Visitor Counter : 58
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu