      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Smt. Meenakshi Lekhi, MP launches ‘Swachhata Pakhwada’ undertaken by DARPG
      Posted On: 16 MAY 2018 5:09PM by PIB Delhi


    Smt. Meenakshi Lekhi, MP (Lok Sabha), New Delhi and Member, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice launched the “Swachhata Abhiyan” of t he Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, here today. The DARPG is observing the ‘Swachhata Pakhwada’ at its premises at Sardar Patel Bhawan from May 16 to 31, 2018 to renew and reinforce the concept of cleanliness among the officers and staff of the Department.


    Speaking on the occasion, Smt. Lekhi said cleanliness helps improve productivity, making governance responsive and attentive to the people at large. On the other hand, unclean and dirty office environment impacts attitude and results in a casual approach to work, she added. Smt. Lekhi said the DARPG, dealing with Public Grievances, represents the front office of the entire Government set up and hence cleanliness assumes more significance in its premises. Smt. Lekhi suggested that all ladies toilets in government offices should have sanitary pad dispensers and incinerators. She also advocated replacing plastic pad with organic pads like those made of banana fibres, cotton cloth and reusable materials so as not to precipitate environmental pollution.


    Earlier, the Secretary, DARPG and Secretary, Department of Pensions & Pensioners’ Welfare, Shri KV Eapen said the Department has prepared a chronological plan of activities during the ‘Swachhata Pakhwada’. Various activities have been planned on a daily basis during the fortnight in which the staff will be encouraged to participate, he added.


    Giving details of the modernization programme of the DARPG, Joint Secretary, DARPG, Smt. Smita Kumar said the Department has implemented 100% e-office and digitised all records.


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh and a senior officer from M/o Drinking Water & Sanitation are scheduled to visit the office premises on May 29, 2018 to inspect the implementation of the Swachhata Action Plan.


    *********


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1532347) Visitor Counter : 152