      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh discusses Insurance and Pension related issues with Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 14 MAY 2018 5:17PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), represented by its Pratiraksha (Industrial) unit called on the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today and discussed wide range of issues related to Central Government employees, including Insurance, Pension, promotions and other matters.


    In a memorandum presented to the Minister, the delegation submitted that the Central Government Employees Group Insurance Scheme was notified on 1 st November 1980 and came into effect from 1 st January 1982. The scheme is intended to provide Central Government employees, at a low cost, on a wholly contributory and self-financing basis, the twin benefits of an insurance cover to their families in the event of death in service and a lump-sum payment to augment their financial sources on retirement. However, the BMS demands that the government should immediately notify the customized Group Insurance Scheme for Central Government employees with low premium and high risk cover.


    The memorandum also expressed discontentment of a section of employees for being left out from the provision of minimum guaranteed pension under National Pension Scheme (NPS). It requested that a minimum pension be guaranteed equivalent to 50% of the employee's last drawn Basic Pay plus Dearness Relief for neutralization of price rise.


    Among other issues raised by the delegation was the demand for one-time relaxation for compassionate appointments. This has become important because a large number of wards are waiting for their appointment on compassionate grounds to look after their family.


    The delegation also demanded the framing of an appropriate transfer policy in all cadres in favour of single woman/single mother employees. They requested that whenever such women are given postings, it should be mandatorily ensured that they are placed at stations closest to their hometown or the place of their choice.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that he will direct the DoPT to process the issues related to them, while other issues related to other Ministries will be referred for the perusal and views of the respective Ministries.


    *****


    BB/NK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1532048) Visitor Counter : 395
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil