      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog and ABB India Sign Statement of Intent
      Posted On: 23 MAY 2018 6:13PM by PIB Delhi


    To collaborate to provide AI, big data and connectivity solutions across sectors


    NITI Aayog and ABB India signed a Statement of Intent (SoI) today to support the Indian government realize its ambitious vision of ‘Make in India’ through advanced manufacturing technologies that incorporate the latest developments in robotics and artificial intelligence.


    The agreement was signed in the presence of Shri Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog and Dr Ulrich Spiesshofer, CEO, ABB by Ms Anna Roy, Adviser (Industry), NITI Aayog and Shri Sanjeev Sharma, MD, ABB India.


    NITI Aayog will work with ABB across various sectors of the economy, such as the power and water utilities, industries like food as well as the heavy industries and the transport (rail and metro) and infrastructure to suggest solutions for digitalization, incorporating the Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies. The initiative also covers the fast growing segment of electric mobility.


    Jointly, NITI Aayog and ABB will work with government ministries, solicit feedback for areas critical to them and discuss solutions using industrial automation, and digitalization technologies.


    “We are looking forward to learning more about practical applications of future technologies such as AI and IoT, especially in streamlining governance and economic systems. Through this collaboration, which will include cross-sectoral understanding of digitalization at ABB’s world class centers , will be key in driving progress of key sectors in India. This collaboration is meant to lead to actionable insights and focused plans that will help India become a centre for advanced manufacturing,” said Shri Amitabh Kant.


    Through this SoI, NITI Aayog will facilitate participation of policymakers and government functionaries in workshops and training programs organized by ABB India. Such programs will feature subject matter experts and will aim to sensitize policymakers and officials about relevant AI capabilities, and explore ways they can be used for revolutionizing manufacturing productivity.


    The first workshop for senior government officials, under this collaboration, would be organised in June, 2018 at ABB Ability Innovation Centre in Bengaluru. Given the importance of the food processing sector, the workshop will focus on digital and automation technologies in this sector.


    Senior officials from the Central, State Governments and autonomous bodies will be nominated for this workshop. Similar workshops will be organised for other sectors such as power, urban development and transport in the future.


    NITI Aayog and all stakeholders will be exposed to hands-on experience of ABB Ability, the company’s comprehensive digital portfolio of solutions that deliver value of industrial digitalization to utilities, industries and transportation and infrastructure.


    Based on the interactions with ABB India, NITI Aayog will also make recommendations to government ministries for guidelines and policies regarding development and adoption of AI technology in sectors such as power & water utilities, manufacturing, eMobility and infrastructure, with industrial automation and digitalization as the backbone.


    NITI Aayog, in collaboration with ABB, will come out with a report on policy recommendations based on the feedback received in the workshops, by December this year.


    The workshops and training programs will be held at ABB Ability Innovation Center (ABB AIC). As the company’s biggest research and development center in the world, located in Bengaluru, it develops technologies in areas such as AI, cyber security, automation engineering, data analytics, augmented and virtual reality and industrial software.


    “We are excited to partner with NITI Aayog and develop ways to for key areas of India’s economy to benefit from and implement the latest technologies in digitalization, artificial intelligence, robotics, and industrial automation. We look forward to working with key stakeholders in the Indian government, and supporting key initiatives of Prime Minister Modi such as ‘Make in India’,” said Dr Ulrich Spiesshofer.


    ***


    AKT/RKC/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533208) Visitor Counter : 485