      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Northeast students' hostels soon in JNU, Bangalore University: Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 31 MAY 2018 6:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh said here today that Northeast students' hostels will soon become functional in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), New Delhi and Bangalore University.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that considering that a large number of students from the North Eastern States undertake courses in Bangalore University, it was decided to have a hostel in in its campus to meet their accommodation demands. He said that two years back a piece of land was acquired from the Bangalore University management and the foundation stone of the building was laid. The construction work is nearing completion and expected to become functional shortly, he added.


    Mentioning about the another hostel to be built in the campus of Jawaharlal Nehru University, Dr Jitendra Singh said that a piece of land had been acquired within the campus of the Jawaharlal Nehru University. The building is also expected to be completed in the near future, he added.


    The cost of construction of both these projects has been borne by the NEC / Ministry of Northeast (DoNER). He said, the modalities of admission to these hostels will be worked out in due course of time.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said he had suggested to keep 75% accommodation reserved for the inmates from the eight North Eastern States in these hostels. This, he said, will offer an opportunity to the students from the Northeast to engage in a healthy social and cultural mingling with students from other parts of the country and at the same time, this might also help in generating some revenue in managing the hostel.


    Meanwhile, Dr Jitendra Singh informed that a piece of land has been acquired at Rohini, Delhi where the construction of another hostel for students from Northeast will be undertaken, which will cater primarily to the students from Delhi University At the same time, he said, land spread over more than three acres has also been acquired at a prime location at Dwarka in Delhi where a Northeast Convention cum Cultural Centre is proposed to be brought up.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1534028) Visitor Counter : 125