      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      PPP model needed to help India become $ 5 trillion economy: Rajiv Kumar
      Posted On: 09 JUL 2019 5:18PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, July. 09, 2019


    India is set to become $ 5 trillion economy by 2024 and massive structural reforms are needed to reach the target, said Shri Rajiv Kumar, Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog here today. Speaking at the 91 st Annual General Meeting of Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC), Shri Kumar stated that the government in the last five years brought about many big reforms in particular, in indirect taxation, bankruptcy and real estate sector. Emphasizing on the Public Private Partnership (PPP) Shri Kumar urged the private companies to work jointly with the government to help India emerge the third largest economy in the world after the USA and China. He said that we need investment in infrastructure, digital economy and job creation in small and medium enterprises to achieve this goal. The Indian industry and infrastructure sector's real challenge is to bring in adequate private investment in collaboration with the public sector, he added.


    India needs to be export-orient economy, he said that China and East Asia have grown by increasing investment which enhanced productivity, they pursued export-driven model which enabled them to compete in international markets.


    Referring the initiatives of the Centre, he stated that the the government aims to make all facilities accessible to the poor and common people and it is striving hard to provide them with primary nutrition, basic health facilities, housing to all, toilets, electricity, drinking water etc.


    Shri Sanjeev Sanyal, Principle Economic Advisor, Department of Economic Affairs, Union Ministry of Finance said that economic survey and current Union budget have clearly mentioned all the ways to put the country on development track and make it empowered economically. There are some hurdles which need to be removed. Filling existing judicial vacancies and improving productivity improvements in courts can address key hurdle of delays in contract enforcement and dispute resolution.


    ICC also honored prominent Indian cricketer, Shri Yuvraj Singh with lifetime achievement award on this occasion.


    Dr. Arvind Panagariya, former Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog; Shri Ravi Thakran, Chairman and Managing Partner, L Catterton Asia Advisors, Group Chairman, LVMH, South Asia, South East Asia, Australia and Middle Ease and Shri Rudra Chatterjee, President, ICC were also present among others on the occasion.


    ********


    CG/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577972) Visitor Counter : 22
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali