      Ministry of Railways

      HOSPITAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (HIMS) AND CCTV INAUGURATED AT SOUTH EASTERN RAILWAY CENTRAL HOSPITAL
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2019 2:15PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 8July, 2019


    A Hospital Information Management System (HIMS) and CCTV System has been inaugurated at South Eastern RailwayCentral Hospital, Garden Reach, Kolkata on Friday (05-7-2019). Shri P. S. Mishra, General Manager, SE Rly, while inaugurating the programme said that this kind of endeavour is necessary for a big and prime railway hospital. Shri Mishra also said that this would improve the efficiency of doctors, nurses, paramedics and staff of hospital and they will remain vigilant every time during their duty. Dr. R K Pani, Chief Medical Director, S E Railway, Dr.RupaMitra, Medical Director, S E Railway Central Hospital, Principal Officers of various departments, doctors, paramedics and staff were present in the inaugural ceremony.


    Hospital Information Management System (HIMS) will generate and maintain the data of Out Patients Department (OPD) registration, Indoor Patients Department (IPD) admission & discharge, medicine store, delivery of pathological reports, x-ray reports etc. of the patients of the hospital. This data pool will help in providing services in a better way to the beneficiaries in future visits. This will also reduce paper work to a great extent in the hospital. This data may also be used as a source of research data as ours is a medical teaching hospital. This will reduce waiting time of the patients attending hospital for treatment and will make the registration process faster.The particulars of a patient and the progress of his or her treatment can be observed by the health professionals effortlessly at the click of a mouse.


    As many as 29 CCTV have been installed in wards, gates and corridors of Central Hospital. This will help in keeping constant surveillance for the safety and security of patients, relatives of patients, doctors, nurses and staff of the hospital on 24x7 basis.


    ........


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577698) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali