      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Tea Board to Set up Electronic Auction Platform for Jorhat
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2019 4:37PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, July 8, 2019


    Tea Board is on the way of going to start an innovative e-market place for setting up of an electronic auction platform for Jorhat to cater to the Assam tea cluster. For this, it has awarded contract to M/s mjunction Services Limited for setting up of this electronic auction platform. This particular e-commerce company is developing an innovative e-market place with associated services like central warehousing, logistics for Tea Board. This information was given by Dy Chairman of Tea Board Shri Arun Kumar Ray in a press conference at Tea Board today. He said, the proposed e-marketplace model is expected to bring on board secondary and tertiary buyers from all over the country, giving them access to the fresh tea, easy to use automated e-catalogue and faster movement of produce resulting in increase of unit price of tea. The organic small growers producing special tea in the North East will be benefitted by this separate platform.


    In another move, Shri Ray said, Tea Board has proposed to allow export of un-denatured tea waste to other countries for using the same as raw material in manufacturing of instant tea, caffeine production etc. The proposal is at an advanced stage of consideration and is expected to generate revenue for the country along with reduction of poor quality tea in the market.


    Shri Ray stated that production from the small grower sector has gone up more than 50 per cent in the month of June, this year, though, overall production from the small grower sector remains at 48 per cent. According to him, between January to May, 2019, tea export from India to Iran, Russia, UAE, Egypt and China have increased a lot. Out of total produce of 110 milionkgs of Orthodox tea, 90 million kgs have been exported directly; while another 10 to 15 million kgs have been exported in the blended form. The top 10 buyer countries included Iran, Russia, UAE, Germany, UK, USA, Poland, Taiwan, Tunisia and Iran (nearly, 77 milionkgs).


    At the end, Shri Ray pointed out that price at north Indian auction gained by Rs 6.40 per kg while South India gained Rs 9.97 per kg during January to June, 2019 as compared to corresponding period of last year.


    *******


    CG/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577777) Visitor Counter : 8
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali