      Ministry of Defence

      INDIAN FISHING BOAT RESCUED IN A COORDINATED OPERATION BETWEEN INDIAN COAST GUARD AND BANGLADESH COAST GUARD
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2019 2:33PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 08 July 2019


    Thirteen crew members onboard Indian fishing boat ‘Tara Shankar’ have been rescued from about 60 NM inside Bangladesh waters on Saturday (06 July 2019), in a coordinated operation between Indian Coast Guard and Bangladesh Coast Guard amidst very rough seas and inclement weather.


    On Saturday afternoon Indian Coast Guard Regional Headquarters in Kolkata had received a telephonic message from Assistant Director (Fisheries), Diamond Harbour regarding the distressed Indian Fishing Boat “Tara Shankar” with 13 crew from Kakdwip, West Bengal.


    On receipt of the information and considering the rough sea/inclement weather conditions, the Indian Coast Guard Regional Headquarters immediately contacted Bangladesh Coast Guard West Zone Headquarters at Mongla. On the request of Indian Coast Guard, one Bangladesh Naval ship on patrol was diverted and one Bangladesh Coast Guard ship was sailed from Mongla harbour for Search and Rescue.


    Bangladesh Navy ship located the Indian disabled boat with 13 crew onboard near Mongla Fair Way Buoy in the evening and rescued the boat and all crew members. Despite very high sea conditions (against 5-6 metres of swell) Bangladesh Naval ship took the Indian disabled boat under tow and brought to Pussur River mouth (approx 60 NM Eastward from IMBL), where 100 more Indian Fishing Boats were sighted. These Indian Fishing Boats had taken shelter due to rough seas & inclement weather. After coordination efforts by Indian Coast Guard Regional Headquarters, Kolkata with Bangladesh Coast Guard, the Indian disabled boat was handed over to one of the operational IFBs for towing back to India. As sea is rough, all the Indian Fishing Boats including the disabled boat under tow were guided by Bangladesh Naval ship for taking passage through riverine/coastal route westward upto Haribhanga river.


    The prompt operation could be executed because Indian Coast Guard and Bangladesh Coast Guard have a ‘Memorandum of Understanding’ followed by a ‘Standard Operating Procedure’ for helping each other during such incidences and making waters of north Bay of Bengal safe.


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577712) Visitor Counter : 7
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali