      Ministry of Railways

      64th ANNUAL RAILWAY NATIONAL AWARDS FUNCTIONHELD AT RANCHI
      Posted On: 15 JUL 2019 12:34PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, July 14, 2019


    The 64th Annual Railway National Awards Function was organized on 14th July, 2019 at Ranchi to recognize the inherent talent and the exemplary performance of Railway employees in various creative and cultural fields. Ranchi Division of South Eastern Railway hosted this National Railway Function.


    Sri Raghubar Das, Hon’ble Chief Minister of Jharkhand graced the occasion as the Chief Guest while Sri Suresh C Angadi, Hon’ble Minister of State for Railwaysattended the function as the Guest of Honour. Sri V.K.Yadav, Chairman, Railway Board, Board Members, Board Secretary, General Managers of Zonal Railways/Production Units & Public Sector Undertakings along with other Senior officers were also present.


    An excellent Exhibition was organized by different Zonal Railways, Production Units and Public Sector Undertakings on the contribution of Indian Railways to the inclusive growth in the country showcasing new initiatives, cutting edge technology and various developmental activities. The Exhibition attracted huge spectators.


    Hon’ble MOSR while addressing the large gathering, congratulated all the awardees and all the employes of Railway family for their outstanding performance to run the lifeline of the nation.


    Sri Raghubar Das, Hon’ble Chief Minister of Jharkhand extended hearty welcome to the Govt. Of India for organizing this kind of National Level function at Ranchi. Hon’ble Chief Minister also said that Indian Railways has done a lot of work to maintain cleanliness and has adopted various safety measures.


    The Annual Railway National Award Function was based mainly on the felicitation of Winners and Runners up of Inter Railway ‘Painting’, ‘Quiz’, ‘Cultural’&‘Documentary’Competitions, which were held at Guwahati,Thiruvananthapuram, Varanasi and Ahmedabad respectively.


    In the Painting Category, Sri P. ShyamSundar Rao Achary of East Coast Railway bagged the 1st Position while Sri Chandra Prakash Ramtahal of Central Railway became the Runners Up. In the Quiz Competition, Southern Railway bacame the Champion while Integral Coach Factory bagged 2nd position. In the cultural category Sri Pankaj BandhuJadhao of Integral Coach Factory bagged the 1st position in Light Vocal (male) while Sri Gaurav Kumar Pathak of South East Central Railway became the Runners up. SmtPushpaTripathyof South East Central Railway won the 1st position in the Light Vocal (female) and SmtSubhasree Dam of North Eastern Railway became the Runners Up.SmtMausumiSaha of Chittaranjan Locomotive Works and SmtMaheswari Pradhan of South East Central Railway bagged the 1st and 2nd position in Solo Dance (classical). In the Group Dance, the Team East Coast Railway became the Champion and team West Central Railway became the Runners Up. In the Documentary Film Competition, East Coast Railway bagged the 1st position and North East Frontier Railway became Runners Up.


    Earlier, Honble Chief Minister of Jharkhand, Honble Minister of State for Railways along with Chairman, Railway Board, Members of Railway Board, General Managers of Zonal Railways/ Production Units and PUCs visited the Exhibition and appreciated the endeavours of Railways.


    ******


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578705) Visitor Counter : 4