      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      IndianOil maintains supply of fuel & LPG to NorthEast despite nature’s flood fury
      Posted On: 22 JUL 2019 5:11PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 22 July, 2019


    During the last few days, incessant heavy rains have triggered floods and landslides and have affected the entire North-east India once again. Over forty three lakh people are believed to have been affected throwing normal life out of gear. The floods have affected the Kaziranga National Park as well, forcing animals to seek shelter in higher grounds. Many famed one – horned rhinos of Assam are feared to have been drowned by the floods. Most of the roads in the plains are flooded and the roads in the hills have been washed away disrupting all communication. Nearly all trains have been cancelled due to the high water level volume in the Brahmaputra. In Arunachal Pradesh, many people have been injured and two little girls were buried in their sleep due to a heavy landslide in Tawang. Most of Mizoram has become inaccessible due to landslides and at least 10,000 people in Tripura have been rendered homeless and forced to take shelter in relief camps.


    Despite nature lashing out all its fury, it is commendable that the supplies of fuel (petrol & diesel) and LPG to these flood affected places have been least affected. IndianOil officials in the North – East in collaboration with their channel partners are working day in and day out to ensure that the POL supplies to all the states in the North East are not hindered. Every effort is being made, whether it be by a truck, tanker, car, boat, cycle or even by foot, to ensure that fuel should be available. If normal roads are blocked, fuel is being sent via alternate routes which are much longer and a few more dangerous.


    In many places in flooded Assam, the LPG truckers are using boats to deliver the LPG cylinders to the distributors who in turn are sending the delivery boys on foot to deliver the cylinders. Many petrol pumps have started operating 24x7 in the flood hit areas so that the general public is not inconvenienced.


    In hilly areas, where even small passenger vehicles are not able to ply, the oil tankers and LPG trucks are supplying fuel and LPG despite the fact that these vehicles might just get washed away if the road is not able to take its weight. In stretches, there are reports of vehicles getting stuck in landslides or other vehicles already washed away in such landslides. Despite such news, oil tanker drivers of IndianOil are ensuring that the fuel reaches their destinations.


    IndianOil channel partners in these places have set up camps in accessible areas for distribution of LPG, and customers are ensured service from these camps. In a few hilly areas of the north east, the local people have also chipped in along with the LPG delivery boys to form human chains and carry as many LPG cylinders up the hills to ensure that LPG is available to light the kitchen flame every day.


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579769) Visitor Counter : 4