      Ministry of Railways

      SOUTH EASTERN RAILWAY’S NEW GENERAL MANAGER
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2019 5:57PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, July 18 2019


    Sri Lalit Chandra Trivedi, General Manager, East Central Railway has assumed additional charge of General Manager, South Eastern Railway today (18.07.19) in place of Sri P.S.Mishra who has joined as the Member Traffic of Railway Board.


    Sri Mishra is an Officer of 1981 Batch of Indian Railways Service of Mechanical Engineers. He was the Gold medal winner of EngineeringFaculty of the University, and later stood first in the Mechanical Engineering stream of Indian Engineering Services examination of 1981.


    Sri Mishra has undertaken Management courses in HEC school of Management Paris and Carnegie Mellon university of Pittsburgh USA.


    Sri Mishra comes with a rich and diverse experience in the field of PPP /Wet leasing and Project execution. The PPP model designed by him for Railway laundries was adopted by Indian Railways and today around 50 mega laundries are running on the PPP model designed by him.


    To Sri Mishra,also goes the credit of bringing concept and execution of Wet Leasing of capital assets in Indian Railways.Sri Trivedi showed remarkable efficiency for setting up facilities for production of Stainless Steel Coaches in Integral Coach Factory (ICF) Chennai.


    While working as Divisional Railway Manager, Bilaspur, the Division was the highest revenue earning Division of Indian Railways during 2011-13and the Division broke all previous records of coal loading contributing in a big way to improving the Earnings of Railways and easing the power situation in the country.


    Keeping his skill set in mind, Railway Board posted him at ICF CHENNAI initially as Chief Project Manager and later as Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer in 2013. In a brief period of 4 years, he pioneered the manufacture of stainless steel LHB coaches and made ICF the biggest stainless steel coach manufacturer among all Production Units including both in public and private sector.He also created a record by supplying 75 EMU trains for Mumbai suburban in a period of little over a year contributing majorly to ease suburban commuters' woes in the financial capital of the country.


    Sri Mishra has won many awards at various level for excellence in academics, project execution and Railway engineering. For all round excellence, the Institute of Mechanical Engineers London granted him its Fellowship.


    ******


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579395) Visitor Counter : 4