      Ministry of Defence

      INDIA'S MARCH TOWARDS SELF-RELIANCE IN DEFENCE PRODUCTION
      Posted On: 13 JUL 2019 4:03PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 13 July 2019


    Self-reliance in Defence production is a major corner-stone on which the military capability of any Nation rests. Accordingly, the Defence Production Policy promulgated by the government, aims at achieving substantive self-reliance in the design, development and production of equipment, weapon systems, platforms required for defence, creating conditions conductive for private industry to play an active and crucial role in this endeavor and enhancing potential of MSMEs in Indigenisation and broadening the defence R&D base in the country, saidDr. Ajay Kumar, Secretary, Department of Defence Production, Union Ministry of Defence here in Kolkata today.


    Speaking at a special session on "Defence Production Policy: Towards Self-Reliance" organized by Bharat Chamber of Commerce (BCC), Shri Kumar said, under Make in India initiatives, several measures have been taken to promote indigenous design, development and manufacture of defence equipment in the country by harnessing the capabilities of the public and private partnership. These measures include according preference to procurement from Indian vendors under the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP), simplification of Make procedure, introduction of simplified procedure for Make II sub-category, liberalization of the licensing regime and FDI policy by raising the cap on FDI in the defence sector, simplification of export procedure, streamlining of defence offset guidelines etc. The government has notified the ‘Strategic Partnership (SP)’ Model which envisages establishment of long-term strategic partnerships with Indian entities through a transparent and competitive process, wherein they would tie up with global Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) to seek technology transfers to set up domestic manufacturing infrastructure and supply chains, he added.


    Shri Kumar stated that a number of steps have also been taken to revitalize the working of DPSUs. All DPSUs and Ordnance Factory Board (FOB) have been asked to increase their outsourcing to SMEs, so that an eco-system for manufacturing develops within the country. Like other sectors, Indian Defence industry would rise to the occasion. Government and private industries will have to work together to create an eco-system, which is required for the growth and sustainability of this sector and this would be in our long term interest of National security, he said.


    Shri Kumar wished to extend partnership in Eastern Region and encouraged small players to take part actively to boost defence production within the country.


    Shri Ajay Kumar also launched Bharat Chamber Defence Sector Facilitation Centre. The objective of this facilitation centre is handholding and guidance to MSMEs and others who are interested to diversify into defence production.


    Shri Arup Raha, Air Chief Marshall (Retd); Shri Aniruddha Chakravarty, Lt. General (Retd); Shri J. P. Chowdhary, Executive Chairman, Titagarh Wagons Ltd.; Dr.Rajib Chakraborty, Honorary Advisor, BCC Defence Sector Facilitation Centre and Shri Sitaram Sharma, President, BCC among others were also president on the occasion.


    ********


    CG/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579294) Visitor Counter : 7
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali