      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Shri Amit Khare emphasizes on integrated and collaborative method of information dissemination
      Posted On: 27 JUL 2019 2:09PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, July 27, 2019


    An official meeting of Shri Amit Khare, Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting was organized with senior officials of the department of the ministry at National Library heretoday. Press Information Bureau was the host of the meeting.


    The meeting delved in details the functional aspects related to administration and financial working of all the media offices under the purview of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Shri Khare emphasized that discussion on integrated and collaborative methodology of information dissemination is the essential component of effective communication to ordinary public. He said that theme of communication on a broad level should move from ministry wise to theme wise approach of communication. Shri Khare informed that ‘Transforming India’ with success stories at ground level with common people should be an integral component of communication for all departments including Press Information Bureau, Doordarshan and All India Radio. He emphasized that the culture of the place with its social ethos can be dovetailed with the developmental stories for wider publicity. He urged the participating senior officials to promote stories of common importance such as water conservation, which will be of due importance for everyone. He also spoke about the importance of community radio where educational institutes are encouraged to set them up. Shri Khare informed that 50 percent of the finance will be from Central Government and rest can be from the resources of the institute.


    The discussion included issues of administrative and achievements of all departments. Officials apprised the Secretary of the upgradation and modernization planning and coordination for new projects of Doordarshan and All India Radio.


    In her welcome address, Ms. Jane Namchu, ADG, PIB Kolkata informed about the integrated approach of information communication. Shri Khare was informed by officials of Doordarshan and All India Radio, including Shri R Ghosh Dastidar, ADG(E)(Eastern Zone) and Shri LK Pradhan, ADG(E) (Eastern Zone) of the technological developments in studio setup and DSNG vans for effective news dissemination. Shri Arunava Roy, HOO(Prog.) of Doordarshan apprised Secretary of activities in programme department. High Quality programme with upgradation of transmission equipments were the central discussion in the meeting with Secretary.


    Dr. Debamitra Mitra, Director, Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute apprised Secretary of training and educational aspects of the institute. Shri Khare emphasized on collaborative approach in learning with Film Divison and other media units for the holistic learning of the students. Shri V Pakriswamy, Director, Film Division, Kolkata expressed optimism with the suggestions from the perspective of its implementation.


    ******


    SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580537) Visitor Counter : 15
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali