      Ministry of Science & Technology

      TREE PLANTATION CEREMONY AT CSIR-CMERI
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2019 4:19PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, July 24, 2019


    A Tree Plantation Ceremony was held at Council of Scientific and Industrial Research ( CSIR ) The Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute (CMERI) , Durgapur today. Total 103 Trees of various species were planted on this occasion. The Plantation Ceremony was inaugurated by Professor Harish Hirani, Director, CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur, Shri Abhishek Gupta, IPS, Deputy Commisioner of Police, Asansol-Durgapur Police Commisionerate and Shri Milan Kanti Mondal, Divisional Forest Officer by planting a Tree each. Among the Trees planted were Mango, Guava, Haritaki, Amla, Berry etc. An engaging discussion about the Green and Ecology related technologies developed by CSIR-CMERI also took place between Dr. Hirani and the visiting guests.


    Speaking on the occasion Prof. Hirani stated that CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur, through its R& D activities is dedicated towards creating a Green and Healthy Ecology.This plantation of Trees will help in reducing the Carbon Footprint, improving the Forest Cover and developing a healthy Water Table for the area and its vicinity besides being an effective counter force against Environmental Pollution.All the employees of the Institute pledged to undertake such plantation exercises on an individual level wherever they can and also to inspire the members of the society.


    Shri Abhishek Gupta and Shri Milan Kanti Mondal both appreciated the efforts of Prof. Hirani to undertake such plantation exercises on a regular basis and urged him to further encourage such activities in the future. Shri Abhishek Gupta suggested that the planted trees should be provided with a peripheral protection to protect it from stray animals. Shri Milan Kanti Mondal promised to extend his support for CSIR-CMERI whenever required. Shri Mondal also promised to provide a Rudraksha Tree sapling for CSIR-CMERI, which is unique for Durgapur.


    *******


    CG/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580073) Visitor Counter : 92
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali