      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      
      Grand Cultural Programme for
      Independence Day Celebration Being Planned In City
      Posted On: 13 AUG 2019 3:19PM by PIB Guwahati


    On the occasion of 73rd Independence day, Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati under the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting is organising an Integrated Communication & Outreach Programme at the premises of Assam Khadi and Village Industries Board, Chandmari, Guwahati on 13 th and 14 th August. Shri. L.R Vishwanath, Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of I&B informed it today while addressing a press conference at the office of Director General, North East Zone, Chandmari, Guwahati.


    Shri. Vishwanath briefed the media about the three day long mega event which includes a photo exhibition on contribution of freedom fighters of North East. Some panels on the achievements of 50 days of the Union government and its flagship schemes will also be displayed in the exhibition. On 14 th August, the artistes of ROB will perform live art performances on freedom movements in a cultural extravaganza. He further added that now there is a change in the publicity approach, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting is now focusing on Integrated Communication & Outreach Programme to reach people. All the publicity programmes now onwards has to be in integrated manner i.e exhibition, filed publicity and programmes of Song & Drama Division in one programme to make it more effective.


    Shri. Ahmed Muyeen Farooqi, Deputy Director, ROB, Guwahati informed that renowned freedom fighter of Assam Padmashri Hema Bharali will grace the occasion on 14 th August. As part of the event ROB, Guwahati is also organising various activities including art competitions for the school children, public announcement etc. during this three day programme. A pre- publicity programme at War Memorial, Dighalipukuri will be held today to make people aware about the struggle of freedom fighters. The tricolor will be unfurled in the office premises on 15 th August followed by Prabhat Pheri he added. Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB Guwahati was also present in the conference.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581901) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese