      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      
      Two Day Regional Conference of NE Zone and West Bengal Region concludes Today
      Issues of North East Zone must be highlighted and projected in the National Scenario: Amit Khare
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2019 4:27PM by PIB Guwahati


    The issues pertaining to North East Zone must be highlighted and projected in the national scenario as North East is the gateway to East Asia, says Shri Amit Khare, Secretary Ministry of Information and Broadcasting today at Guwahati. Shri Khare addressed the Regional conference of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting held here for North East Zone and West Bengal region. Shri Khare in his speech emphasized on maintaining coordination with the State government departments who are the implementing agencies of the developmental schemes of the government for wider dissemination of information to get effective results.


    He further added that information must be disseminated in local language so that it would reach the larger community. Under the Act East policy the present government is now making efforts for the development and connectivity of the region, he said. Shri Khare also took review of the publicity activities of the media units of North East zone and West Bengal region. The participants from the Directorate of Information & Public relation departments of various states from North East also discussed about the publicity issues relating to their zone with Shri Khare.


    Director General North East Zone Shri L R Vishwanath briefed about the publicity activities carried out in the North East zone after the integration of different units of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.


    Director General, Bureau of Outreach Communication, New Delhi, Shri Satyendra Prakash briefed about the theme based and Zero budget communication where minimum budget can give maximum results through campaigns done in integrated manner.


    In the two day long conference senior officials from the Ministry as well as head of media units in Delhi and North East deliberates on programmes and outreach strategy for the region. The Conference entailed close interaction amongst Bureau of Outreach and Communication, Press Information Bureau, All India Radio and Doordarshan for developing an integrated strategy for communication about various flagship programmes of the Central Government in the NER.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582984) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese