      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      MCI permits 2nd year MBBS Admissions in ESI Medical College at Sanathnagar, Hyderabad
      Shri Dattatreya to attend International Labour Organisation conference in Geneva
      
      Minister hails Judgement on Cow Slaughter
      
      Posted On: 10 JUN 2017 5:22PM by PIB Hyderabad


    The Minister of State for Labour & Employment Shri Bandaru Dattareya said that Medical Council of India (MCI) has given permission to ESI Medical College for 2 nd year admissions and permission to start Dental College at Gulbarga in Karnataka State. Addressing Media here on Saturday, he said Six Medical Colleges and Two Dental Colleges were run by the ESI in the country. The six Medical Colleges are located at Hyderabad, Bangalore, Joka, Faridabad, Chennai and Gulbarga and the Dental Colleges are at Delhi and Gulbarga. The ESI has proposed to construct 300-bedded hospital at Amaravathi, 100-bedded hospital at Penugonda, 450-beded hospital at Vishakapatnam, 100-bedded hospital at Guntur and another 100-bedded hospital at Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh. He requested the AP Government to allot land for construction of hospitals and also give other necessary permissions at the earliest. The ESI hospital at Tirupathi will be renovated with a cost of Rs 117 crore.


    The Minister said that 14 new dispensaries were proposed be started in Telangana while 23 dispensaries will be upgraded to 6-bedded hospitals. This will be apart from a 30-bedded hospital to be constructed at Kavadigua in Hyderabad, the minister said.


    The minister said the ESI introduced workers health card pertaining to three Jana Suraksha mobile vehicles in Hyderabad. Till date the mobile vehicles provided health services to 672 workers in Hyderabad. At the same time seven mobile vehicles are providing health services in the Telangana State.


    Shri Dattatreya to attend International Labour Organisation conference in Geneva


    The minister will attend International Labour Organisation meetings scheduled to be held from June 12 to 16 in Geneva. During the ILO Conference the Minister would deliver his address on 12 June marking the World Child Labour Day. The next day Shri Dattatreya would address Non Aligned Movement (NAM) countries, Indian Event on Child Labour and ASPAG meeting. On 14 June the minister would address in ILO Conference and G-20 Countries meet. He would address the ILO plenary session on 16 June.


    The Minister will also hold bilateral talks with labour ministers of 8 countries. During the ILO conference, India is hosting an event on Child Labour. He further said that India abolished child labour and it means children under 14 years of age will not be allowed to work at any place while those under 18 years are prevented from working in hazardous industries as per the ILO 138 and 182 conventions.


    The |Minister further added that Indian is implementing technology mode governance in administration and lot of changes and reforms have been taken place in the labour ministry during the last three years.


    Dattatreya hails High Court Judgement on Cow Slaughter


    The Minister hailed the judgement of the High Court on Cow slaughter. He requested the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana States to implement the high court judgement and made necessary amendments to the 1960 Animals act. He appealed the political parties not to make it a political issue. He further requested not to make it as a religious issue.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1492477) Visitor Counter : 46
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu