      PIB Headquarters

      GOOD GOVERNANCE IS THE AGENDA OF GOVERNMENT: SHRI MANOHAR LAL KHATTAR, CHIEF MINISTER, HARYANA Haryana Chief Minister inaugurates ‘MODI Fest’ in Hyderabad
      Posted On: 09 JUN 2017 7:42PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Good governance is the Government’s agenda to serve the people in a better and transparency manner. The government at the centre has successfully completed three years by fulfilling the needs and aspirations of the people said Shri Monohar Lal Khattar, Chief Minister of Haryana. He inaugurated ‘ Modi fest ’ in Hyderabad today. The fest will run for three days. While addressing the gathering, he said that.. After coming to power our work is to do the service to the people, Shri Monohar Lal Khattar said. The government has been implementing several welfare and developmental schemes for the benefit of the SC, ST, farmers, Women and down trodden people, he added. As per the vision of the Prime Minister, housing for all by 2022 will be achieved the Chief Minister of Haryana said. Modi fest is being organised in all districts in the country to empower the people on the achievements of the government. Shri Khattar recalled that the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi launched several schemes such as ‘ Stand up India ’ , Start up India ’ , ‘ Garib Kalyan Yojana ’ , ‘ Phasal Bima Yojana ’ , ‘ Beti Bachao Beti Padhao ’, ‘ Atal Pension Yojana ’ , ‘‘ Swatchh Bharat ’ , ‘ Sukanya Smrudhi Yojana ’ . Shri Monohar Lal Khattar also informed that the government has electrified 15000 non electrified villages during the last there years in the country. By 23 June 2017 all villages in Haryana state will be declared Open Defecation Free (ODF), the Chief Minister announced. From April this year 3500 villages in Haryana state were declared kerosene free villages, he said. He opined that elections should be conducted for Parliament and Assemblies at a time. It would benefit Governments to implement welfare and development schemes successfully, he said. A Memorandum of Understanding will be signed between Telangana and Haryana for exchange programme of the students, he added. He said that the Telangana is partner state with Haryana.


    Shri Bandaru Dattatreya, Union Minister of state (Independent Charge) for Labour and Employment said that the Ministry of Labour and employment is implementing several welfare measures for the benefit of labour in both the Organised sector and the Unorganised sector. The Centre has given sufficient funds for the development of Telangana State, Shri Dattatreya asserted. The government is working with ‘ Team India ’ sprit, the Union Minister said. Dr.K.Lakshman, MLA, Shri G.Kishan Reddy, MLA, Shri Chintala Rama Chandra Reddy, MLA, Shri NVVS Prabhakar, MLA and Shri N.Ramachander Rao, MLC, Smt.Ratnakumari, Assistant General Manager, State Bank of India (SBI), Smt.Nirmala Deputy General Manager, SBI and several state and Central government officials have also participated in the programme.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492461) Visitor Counter : 65
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu