      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      Economic Cooperation with Central and Eastern Europe
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2017 2:42PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government is taking various measures for bringing investment from all over the world, including Central Eastern Europe, to India like opening up Foreign Direct Investment in many sectors, carrying out FDI related reforms and liberalization and improving ease of doing business in the Country.


    India has engaged Czech Republic in heavy engineering since its formation. Further, India has been interacting with Russian Federation in heavy engineering since its formation for technological cooperation in the field of heavy engineering.


    Czech Republic and Russian Federation remain major partner of India in heavy engineering industry through their continued support. Some of the major achievements emanated from interactions with these countries are indicated below:


    Ministry of Industry, Czech Republic has signed an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on 24.11.2015 for technology cooperation in heavy engineering. It includes modernization of Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) by Czech Engineering Firms.


    HEC was set up with Russian collaboration. An MoU has been signed between HEC and M/s. CNIITMASH, a Russian Government Company, for transfer of latest technology to HEC and setting up a training infrastructure for highly specialized metallurgy like electro slag re-melting, welding, gearbox manufacturing and non-destructive testing.


    BHEL has signed a MoU on 15.04.2015 with the Russian Joint Stock Company INTMA to set up a Gas-based Power Project in Kazakhstan .


    Andrew Yule & Co. Limited has signed a MoU with M/s. Togliatti Transformator, Russia on 10.01.2014 for technical knowhow and design in the field of manufacturing of transformer .


    This information was given by Minister of State in the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises Shri Babul Supriyo in reply to a written question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    ST/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481977) Visitor Counter : 21