      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Sports Minister Vijay Goel lays the Foundation Stone at Gandhinagar, Gujarat for the first ever training center dedicated for Para Athletes
      Posted On: 05 FEB 2017 9:20AM by PIB Delhi

      

    Para athletes have won 4 medals at RIO Olympics for India in 2016and brought glory for the country in International Sports Arena. Prime Minister after meeting with Para Athlete Shri Devender Jhajharia Gold Medalist of RIO Olympic Games 2016 desired that a World Class Para athletic Center be opened in India. Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs & Sports Shri Vijay Goel took the initiative and approved a Center of Excellence for Differently Abled Sportspersons at SAI Gandhinagar,the first ever training centre dedicated for Para athletes in the country. Today shri Vijay Goel laid the foundation stone of Boundary wall for the Center of Excellence Para Center at Sector – 25 Gandhinagar.


    Speaking on the occasion, he said that sportspersons can approach him in case they face any professional problem. He said, a Talent Search Portal is being launched soon to spot the budding sports persons in the country. He said the Center of Excellence for Differently Abled Sportspersons for which he laid the foundation today will help Para Athletes to showcase their skills and talent further both at national and international level.


    The center is proposed for an estimated budget of over Rs. 50 crores. It will have the World Class facilities where Para athletes will be trained for various International Competitions including Asian Games, Common Wealth Games and Olympic Games and will also here Classification center. The center will also hold Seminars, Educational Programmes and Workshops throughout the year with the help of International Paralympic Committee.


    The center will have the following facilities for Para athletes.


    1. Indoor Hall (64m x 42m) fully AC
    
    2. Elite Hostel (100 bedded) fully AC
    
    3. VIP Accommodation for Foreign Guest (20 nos) AC.
    
    4. Open land for warmup.


    The entire project will be constructed by CPWD in coordination with the various Experts and Consultants having full accessibility as per the norms of IPC.


    Earlier in the day, Shri Vijay Goel inaugurated SAI Training Center (Para) at SAI NSWC Gandhinagar.STC Para training center will provide facilities for training in the following identified sports disciplines in the age group 14 – 20 years.


    1. Athletics (Boys & Girls)
    
    2. Swimming (Boys & Girls)
    
    3. Power – Lifting (Boys & Girls)


    With a total strength of 50 (Boys & Girls), Annual budget for this scheme is Rs. 50 lacs, all the selected para athletes will be accommodated in Elite Hostel.The following playing facilities of International level will be provided to the para athletes for day to day training at SAI Campus Gandhinagar.


    1. Athletics – Synthetic Athletic Track
    
    2. Swimming – International Standard Swimming Pool.
    
    3. Power Lifting – Modern Fitness center with world class equipment.
    
    4. Qualified coaches are posted in each disciplines.


    Facilities like Lodging / Boarding, Sports Kits, Competition exposure, Medical Insurance will be provided under the STC Scheme. Selection trials were conducted (on 3rd and 4th February, 2017) and probable are selected who will be joining the center after the completion of their examination. Several dignitaries, players and Coaches including Shri Devender Jhajharia,Shri Vijay Muneshwar, Arjuna Awardee, Power-Lifting,Shri R. D. Singh, Dronacharya Awardee (Athletics) senior officials of Department of Sports and SAI were present on the occasion.

    ***
    AD/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481818) Visitor Counter : 34