      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Cashless Treatment to Road Accident Victims
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2017 7:27PM by PIB Delhi

        To reduce vehicular pollution across the country, Government has taken proactive steps to promote environment friendly vehicles which are innovative, ushering in proactive use of natural resources. Bharat Stage IV Fuel Norms have been applicable since the year 2010 in Delhi and NCR and certain cities. The set norms have been mandated in phase wise manners across the country. The Government has notified G.S.R. 643(E), dated 19/08/2015 for introduction of BS- IV fuel throughout the country by the year 2017. Furthermore, steps have been taken by notifying alternate fuels like ethanol, biogas, electric hybrid etc. by amending the Central Motor Vehicle Rules. Ministry has issued GSR 889(E) dated 16th September, 2016 for introduction of BS VI, mandating mass emission standard for BS-VI throughout the country w.e.f. from 1st, April 2020.
        The National Green Tribunal vide its order, dated 18.07.2016 and 20.7.2016 in O.A. 21 of 2014, Vardhaman Kaushik V/s Union of India has directed that diesel vehicles older than 10 years to be deregistered in NCR of Delhi. In compliance to the orders of NGT, de-registration of diesel vehicles more than 10 years old is being carried out by the respective State Government. The proposal to introduce ‘Vehicle Fleet Modernization Programme’ to enable the replacement of Old Vehicles is under consideration. This will ensure phasing out of older polluting vehicles and enable their replacement with fuel efficient and environment friendly vehicles. The concept note on ‘Vehicle Fleet Modernization Programme’ to enable the replacement of Old Heavy and Medium Commercial Vehicles as they contribute the maximum of vehicular pollution was placed on Ministry’s official website for information and comments from concerned Ministries and Departments and other stakeholders. The matter has been placed before the Committee of Secretaries for their recommendations.
        This information was given by the Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways Shri Munsukh L. Mandaviya in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.
        ******
        UM/NP/MS
    
    
    (Release ID: 1481892) Visitor Counter : 16