      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Assessment of cases pending with CBI
      Posted On: 02 FEB 2017 2:48PM by PIB Delhi


      As per information received from Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), there are 1081 Regular Cases (RCs) and 75 Preliminary Enquiries (PEs) were pending investigation/enquiry by CBI as on 31.12.2016. The Government, based on assessment of the proposals for creation of posts received from CBI, has increased number of staff by sanctioning 598 new posts for CBI to look after the VYAPAM and the chit fund (PONZI) scam cases.


      Further, Central Government has taken various steps to strengthen Central Bureau of Investigation so as to reduce pendency of cases, which are as under:-


      (i) Approval for appointment of 66 Public Prosecutors has been conveyed to CBI.


      (ii) Approval has also been conveyed for extension in deputation tenure of 31 Public Prosecutors on contract basis.


      (iii) Government has sanctioned additional 92 Special Courts for CBI out of which 88 have become operational.


      (iv) Power has been delegated to Director, CBI for extending of deputation in respect of Inspectors in CBI for the 9 th and 10 th year and also for extensions to 6 th , 7 th and 8 th year which at present is approved by a Committee consisting of 3 members.


      (v) CBI has been exempted from consultation with UPSC for recruitment to the post of DSP for a period of 3 years.


      (vi) CBI imparts training to its officers/ employees in order to enhance their skills at its training centers. Recently a scheme namely Advanced Certified Course for CBI officers has been started to enhance their investigation skills, forensic data collection, collection of evidence, skills etc. by providing them training from National Law School of India University (NLSIU) Bangalore and Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Bangalore.


      (vii) A plan outlay of Rs. 309.52 crore has been allocated for implementation of various schemes viz Modernization of training centers in CBI, CBI e-governance, comprehensive modernization of CBI branches/offices, Construction of CBI office building at Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai and comprehensive modernization and purchase of land/construction office/Residence building for CBI etc. over 12 th Five Year Plan period.


      This was stated by the Minister of State in the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions and Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office Dr. Jitendra Singh in a written reply to a question by Shri Harivansh in the Rajya Sabha today.

      ****

      KSD/PK/KM/RS-104

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481593) Visitor Counter : 32