      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Delhi Police celebrates its 70th Raising Day
      
      Interests of women, children and senior citizens should be given top priority, says Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir

      Posted On: 16 FEB 2017 7:32PM by PIB Delhi
      
      

    The Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir was Chief Guest at the 70th Raising Day of Delhi Police, which was celebrated here today. The MoS inspected the Guard of Honour on the occasion.
    
    During the occasion, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir said that Delhi is at the centre stage of all political, social, cultural as well as commercial activities happening all over the country and the Delhi Police has to be well prepared to face and control any event at large scale, besides performing it regular duties like maintaining law and order and containing crime. The Minister cautioned the citizens against internal terrorism but at the same time, he expressed his confidence in Delhi Police force, which is well equipped to fight any kind of contingency. He stressed upon the friendly police force and said that the interests of women, children and senior citizens should be given top priority. He highlighted about the enhancement of Nirbhaya Fund by around Rs. 25 Cr and assured that the Home Ministry shall have a positive outlook towards requirements of police force in its efforts in Modernization and Digitization.
    
    The Chief Guest conferred medals on 44 police personnel for Gallantry, President Medal of Distinguished Service and Police Medal for Meritorious Service.
    
    Delhi Commissioner of Police Shri Amulya Patnaik appreciated the various past initiatives of Delhi Police, including mobile apps and help lines for lost report, senior citizens, women & children in distress, police clearance and traffic updates. He said that he is determined to make police more people friendly and more digitized to cope up with changing nature of crime in the metropolitan. He further said that Delhi Police is well equipped and in high morale to face any eventuality.

    ***
    

    
    KSD/NK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482899) Visitor Counter : 17