      Ministry of Defence

      AERO India International seminar - Prelude to AERO India 2017 inaugurated by Dr. VK Saraswat, member NITI Aayog
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2017 7:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The 11th edition of the Aero India International Seminar, a prelude to the Aero India 2017 was inaugurated today at Yelahanka, Bengaluru by Dr. VK Saraswat, Member NITI Aayog, Govt of India and President Aeronautical Society of India (AeSI). The seminar is being organized by DRDO in association with the AeSI, from 12 - 14 February.

    Dr. Saraswat in his inaugural address applauded the wonderful work done by DRDO in the field of Aerospace and said self-reliance will remain elusive without indigenization. On this occasion, Dr. Saraswat released the Seminar Souvenir and the Special Issue of the Indian Defence Research and Technology (IDR&T) on “Missile Technology” jointly published by IDST (Institute of Defence Scientists and Technologists) and DRDO.

    The theme of the seminar is ‘Aerospace: Technology Collaboration and Self-Reliance’. The seminar will provide a platform for synergetic interaction amongst aerospace professionals from across the globe to share their ideas, views and opinions to promote R & D in the Aerospace and the Defence sector.

    Secretary, Department of Defence Research & Development and Chairman DRDO, Dr. S Christopher in his Presidential address said the seminar will provide opportunity to explore possibilities of establishing collaborative programmes for research and technology partnerships. He also released the special issue of the Journal of Aerospace Sciences and Technologies brought out by the Aeronautical Society of India on this occasion.

    Dr. CP Ramanarayanan, Director General (Aeronautical Systems) in his welcome address briefed about the three-day seminar.

    More than 900 delegates including 25 foreign delegates from seven countries are participating in the event. 73 speakers from India and abroad will deliver talks and will present papers during the three days of the seminar.

    *****

    NW/NAo/Ranjan
    
    
    (Release ID: 1482538) Visitor Counter : 25