      AYUSH

      Several new drugs have been developed under AYUSH System: Shri Shripad Naik
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2017 5:46PM by PIB Delhi

      

      Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS) has developed anti-diabetic drug AYUSH-82 and AYUSH-SG for Rheumetoid Arthritis. Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH) has developed 9 drugs out of which 2 are of vegetable origin, 5 are from different strains of Dengue virus and two are of chemical origin. Central Council for Research in Siddha (CCRS) has developed D-5 choornam for the management of Type II Diabetes. In addition Ministry of AYUSH through its Research Councils has undertaken R&D for development of new AYUSH drugs with details as under:-

      Ayurveda

      1. Ayush-QOL RC for improvement of quality of life in cancer patients

      2. Ayush- Manas for Mental retardation in Children

      3. C-1 oil for wound healing

      4. Ayush-Rasayan – A&B for Geriatric Health,

      5. Ayush – D for Diabetes,

      6. Ayush – A for Asthma,

      7. Ayush – PJ – 7 for Dengue

      Unani

      The Central Council for Research in Unani Medicine (CCRUM) has conducted multi – centric clinical trials on four new Unani formulations on Vitiligo, Diabetes Mellitus type – II, Essential Hypertension and Infective Hepatitis. Experimental safety of these drugs has already been established

      The development of new drugs is a standard procedure which involves standardization of raw drug followed by Drug proving, Clinical Verification and Clinical Trial. This is done in the concerned institutes of the Ministry following the prevalent guidelines, through Intra – Mural and collaborative research modes. The whole process as detailed above takes 7 to 8 years or even more, in the normal course.

      This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri ShripadYesso Naik in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.

      *****

      NB/SK/UD
    
    
    (Release ID: 1482051) Visitor Counter : 27