      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Group of students from Nagaland call on Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 17 FEB 2017 5:56PM by PIB Delhi

      
        The Union Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh met a group of students from Nagaland here today. The students are on a National Integration Tour from Medziphema (Nagaland) to Delhi and Jaipur which is being organised by 41 Assam Rifles. The students belong to School of Agricultural Sciences and Rural Development (SASARD), Medziphema, Nagaland.
        During the interaction, the students said that they appeal for peace in the state of Nagaland which is facing curfew situation for the last few days and during their visit to Delhi they are also carrying a message of peace. They also expressed happiness over their visit to the National Capital and shared their experiences with the Minister.
        Speaking on the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh said that peace is the prerequisite for any kind of development in any place. He said that he shares the concern expressed by the students about the situation in Nagaland. Dr Jitendra Singh said that youth are the most affected section of society due to any disturbance and the biggest stake for peace is for the youth.
        Dr Jitendra Singh also conveyed good wishes to the students in their future endeavours. He said that the students should see diverse Indian culture during their visit to Delhi and Jaipur and share their experiences when they go back to their state.
        The purpose of organising National Integration Tour is to give exposure to the students from North East and also to give them insight into the culture and tradition of the rest of India. The students have visited Akshardham Temple, Qutub Minar, Hauz Khas Village and Dilli Haat. They will also visit India Gate, Red Fort and some other places in Delhi before going to Jaipur, Rajasthan.
        ***
    
    
    (Release ID: 1482969) Visitor Counter : 77