      AYUSH

      Several National Level Institutions under AYUSH provide medical facilities and education in AYUSH system of medicine
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2017 5:47PM by PIB Delhi

      

      The existing National Institutes under the Ministry of AYUSH are as under:-

      I. National Institute of Ayurveda-Jaipur(Rajasthan)

      II. National Institute of Unani Medicine, Bangalore(Karnataka)

      III. National Institute of Naturopathy-Pune(Maharashtra)

      IV. National Institute of Siddha-Chennai(Tamil Nadu)

      V. National Institute of Homoeopathy-Kolkata(West Bengal)

      VI. Rashtriya Ayurveda Vidyapeeth-New Delhi

      VII. Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, New Delhi

      VIII. Institute of Post Graduate Teaching & Research in Ayurveda, Jamnagar(Gujarat)
      (Funded by Govt. of India but is governed by the Acts & Statute of Gujarat Ayurveda University)

      IX. North Eastern Institute of Ayurveda & Homoeopathy- Shillong(Meghalaya)

      The following two new Institutes are expected to be operational during the current year (2016-17):

      I. The All India Institute of Ayurveda- New Delhi.

      II. North Eastern Institute of Folk Medicine (NEIFM), Pasighat(Arunachal Pradesh)

      1. National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur is offering UG, PG and Fellowship programs in Ayurveda. It is also conducting a Diploma course in Ayurveda Nursing and Pharmacy. The Institute has two Hospitals with a bed strength of 300. For the benefits of population belongings to SC and ST, the Institute is organizing regular Medical Camps in SC and ST inhabited Districts of Rajasthan through its Mobile Clinical Unit to provide free medical facility.


      2. National Institute of Homoeopathy, Kolkata is offering UG, PG courses in six subjects viz. Organon of Medicine, MeteriaMedica, Repertory, Homoeopathic Pharmacy, Practice of Medicine and Pediatrics. It has a 250 bedded hospital attached to.


      3. National Institute of Unani Medicine, Bangalore is offering PG level course in Unani Medicine System and has a 180 bedded hospital. The institute is regularly organizing academic activities like Continuing Medical Education(CME) programmes, workshops, seminars and guest lectures.


      4. National Institute of Siddha, Chennai is offering PG course in Siddha and is providing medical care and undertaking research to promote and propagate the Siddha system of medicine. It has a 160 bedded hospital for in-patient facility to provide medical care in accordance with respective PG Departments.


      5. National Institute of Naturopathy, Pune is conducting training and awareness programme for Naturopathy. It has an OPD clinic where various Naturopathy treatments are given to the patients. The institute is regularly conducting CME programme for Naturopathy practitioners, Continuous Professional Development Programme(CPDP), Women Component Programme, etc.


      6. RastriyaAyurved Vidhyapeeth, New Delhi a ims to preserve and arrange transfer of Ayurvedic knowledge under Gurukula System. It is promoting the knowledge of Ayurveda under Guru-Shishyaparampara through Course of Certificate of Rashtriya Ayurveda Vidyapeeth(CRAV) & Course of Member of Rashtriya Ayurveda Vidyapeeth(MRAV) courses.


      7. Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, New Delhi is propagating and promoting Yoga. It is offering B.Sc. and Diploma courses in Yoga science. The institute organizes an annual event ‘National Yoga Week’, a mass awareness programme for health, happiness and harmony through Yoga from 12-18 February every year which includes Seminar, Conference and Skill Building Workshops in different streams.


      8. North Eastern Institute of Ayurveda & Homeopathy, Shillong consists of Ayurveda & Homoeopathy Colleges along with attached hospitals of Ayurveda & Homoeopathy with a capacity of 100 beds & 50 beds respectively. The institute is offering PG &Ph.D courses in Ayurveda & Homoeopathy both.


      9. Institute of Post Graduate & Teaching and Research in Ayurveda,
      Jamnagar is offering PG & PhD courses. The institute is setting high standards of teaching and research. It has a 180 bedded hospital. The institute is funded by Government of India but is governed by the Acts & Statute of Gujarat Ayurveda University.


      10. All India Institute of Ayurveda, New Delhi is conceived as an Apex Institute for Ayurveda with 200 bed referral hospital. The Institute is expected to be operational during the current year (2016-17) and offering PG &Ph.D courses in Ayurveda. OPD is already operational in the Institute.


      11. North Eastern Institute of Folk Medicine, Pasighast : This is being developed as a premier research institute in all aspects of Folk Medicine knowledge with linkages and collaboration with other research institutions. Wherever feasible, validated folk medicine practices will be integrated into the mainstream healthcare system and made available for the public at the primary healthcare level. The institute is expected to be operational during the current year (2016-17).


      This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri ShripadYesso Naik in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.

      *****

      NB/SK/UD
    
    
    (Release ID: 1482052) Visitor Counter : 69