      Ministry of Finance

      CBDT issues Certificates of appreciation to nearly 3.74 lakh tax payers for their contribution towards Nation building
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2017 8:28PM by PIB Delhi

      

      In continuation of the initiative of the Government to acknowledge the contribution of tax payers by paying taxes towards nation building and promptness in filing of Income Tax Returns, CBDT has issued the third round of Certificates to nearly 3.74 Lakh tax payers. With this, the total number of certificates issued by CBDT now stands at approximately 23 Lakh.

      Individual tax payers may take note that such certificates of appreciation are only sent by e-mail in various categories on the basis of the taxes paid by them for the Assessment Year 2016-17, where taxes have been paid in full, tax payers have no outstanding tax liabilities, the return is e-filed within the prescribed due date and verified through Digital Signature or Electronic Verification Code (EVC) or submission of signed ITR-V to CPC Bangalore. The categories for individual taxpayers are:

      i. Platinum -Taxpayers who have contributed Rs 1 Crore and above as tax

      ii. Gold -Taxpayers who have contributed between Rs 50 Lakh and Rs 1 Crore as tax

      iii. Silver -Taxpayers who have contributed between Rs 10Lakh and Rs50 Lakh as tax

      iv. Bronze -Taxpayers who have contributed between Rs 1Lakh and Rs10 Lakh as tax

      Taxpayers are advised to verify and update their email address and mobile number on the e-filing website to receive electronic communication. It may be noted that taxpayers can provide upto two email and two mobile numbers in their profile. Therefore, it is strongly advised that taxpayers should provide their personal and regularly used Email and Mobile number as their primary email.

      The CBDT urges taxpayers to e-file their returns in time and verify their return by submitting the Electronic Verification Code online or sending their ITR-V within the 120 day period so that they can be also acknowledged for their contribution.

      *****

      DSM/MS
    
    
    (Release ID: 1482083) Visitor Counter : 10