      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      National Workshop on Training on Autism Certification tools held from 9-11th February, 2017
      Posted On: 14 FEB 2017 3:07PM by PIB Delhi


    “2nd three-day Workshop for Training Master Trainers in Autism Tools-INCLEN & ISAA” was organized by the National Trust for the welfare of persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation, and Multiple Disabilities, a statutory body under Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in collaboration with Child Neurology Division, Department of Pediatrics, AIIMS, New Delhi from 09-Feb-2017 to 11-Feb-2017 in Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi.


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice & Empowerment inaugurated the Workshop on 10th Feb, 2017. Sh. N. S Kang, Secretary, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), Sh. Mukesh Jain, Joint Secretary & CEO, National Trust, Prof. Balram Airan, Director, AIIMS along with AIIMS, New Delhi, Doctors, NGOs and professionals in the field and officers of M/o SJ&E were present.


    The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment notified guidelines on 26th April, 2016 to pave the way for constitution of Boards and issuing of Disability Certificates for Autism.


    This workshop was organized for Northern and Eastern states of India in which more than 53 doctors from Government Hospitals from 10 States and Union Territories attended. This include 29 doctors from various Government hospitals of Delhi, 5 from Punjab, 4 from West Bengal, 3 each from Bihar and Chandigarh, 1 each from Assam and Meghalaya. Similarly, the 3rd workshop has been planned for Southern and Western states on 31st March, 1st April & 2nd April, 2017 in Delhi.


    The aim of the workshop was to train the health care professionals (pediatricians, psychiatrists and psychologists) to diagnose and certify Autism correctly using INCLEN and ISAA tools, which are the basis for issuing Certificate for Autism. The participants in the workshop were trained as Master Trainers who in turn will train other professionals in their States / UTs using INCLEN and ISAA tools to diagnose and certify Autism. This will ensure homogeneity in Autism diagnosis and certification, and enable individuals and families to avail the privileges.


    The Government has come up with various schemes and policies for persons with Autism. The National Trust for the welfare of persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities has been implementing 10 schemes for early intervention, education, vocational training, skill development, health care facility and residential care facility to persons with these disabilities through over 450 registered organizations in the country. The certification on Autism will help persons with autism in getting these facilities and improving their quality of life.

    *****
    Sanjay Kumar/MoSJ&E/14.02.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482660) Visitor Counter : 47