      Ministry of Home Affairs

      BSF conducts first band display and retreat ceremony at National Police Memorial MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju pays tributes to the Police Martyrs at the Memorial
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2017 7:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Marking the beginning of a series of ceremonies at the National Police Memorial here today, Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju was the Chief Guest at the Band display and retreat ceremony at National Police Memorial. The Minister and other distinguished guests paid rich tributes to the Police Martyrs at the Memorial. The Border Security Force (BSF) put up a mesmerizing band display and a perfectly orchestrated retreat ceremony in a befitting homage to the Martyrs. The somber yet spectacular display was highly appreciated by Shri Kiren Rijiju and all guests present at the venue.
    
    In a charged atmosphere, the memorial site came alive with the outstanding band display by BSF. The martial tunes played and different formations display by the Brass and pipe band teams of BSF was followed by crisp retreat ceremony by the Seema Praharees who stand as the impregnable wall of India’s first line of defence on Pakistan and Bangladesh Border.
    
    On February 1, 2017, with the initiative of Special Secretary (IS), Ministry of Home Affaris (MHA), Shri Mahesh Kumar Singla, it was decided that every Saturday a band display as well as retreat ceremony will be conducted at National Police Memorial site. It is a monthly event for all Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs). BSF has the distinguished honour of initiating this solemn ceremony for times to come.
    
    Mandated to serve motherland and to save the society from external and internal vices, Police forces of India have proven their mettle braving all odds. Every year, 21st October is observed as Police Commemoration Day. On this fateful day in 1959, 20 brave police men stood as rock against external aggression and gave supreme sacrifice on the altar of duty at the altitude of 16000 feet at Hot springs Ladakh. This legacy of selfless service to nation is carried on with great responsibility and selfless zeal by all Police Forces of India. A Memorial service is conducted every year at Hot springs Ladakh by representatives of all police forces. Since 2012 the same is being observed at a National level at National Police Memorial, Chankyapuri, New Delhi.
    
    Retired and Serving Senior Police Officers, Officers and family members of CAPFs and security agencies, MHA and other Ministries were present during today’s ceremony. The ceremony to be held on every Saturday is open to the public.
    ****

    

    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482517) Visitor Counter : 19