      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Autonomy in Selection of Sportspersons
      Posted On: 09 FEB 2017 6:35PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel said in the Lok Sabha today that the government recognizes one National Sports Federation (NSF) for each sport discipline at the National Level. NSFs are responsible for judicious selection of national team for participation in various international events based on merit following the guidelines issued by the Government.


    In the written reply he said that with a view to ensuring fair and transparent selection of athletes, Government has issued instructions to all the NSFs & IOA to place on their websites various details relating to international events held in India and abroad such as notification of selection criteria for such events well in advance along with the details of time and venue for selection, list of core probables and basis of their selection, details of coaching camps organized including venues, dates and lists of participants, list of the athletes selected, performance criteria which formed the basis of selection, actual performance in terms of timing, distance, etc. and the position obtained by each athlete / team etc.


    All the sportspersons having potential to excel at international level are treated equally irrespective of their caste, religion, financial status etc. The provisions of the Scheme of Assistance to NSFs are inclusive and equally applicable to sportspersons belonging to weaker section.


    However, Government through Sports Authority of India(SAI) is implementing the Special Area Games (SAG) Scheme to select sports talent mainly from the tribal, rural, coastal and remote backward and hilly areas. The trainees in the SAG centres are being trained and provided expert sports coaches, required playing facilities, consumable and non-consumable sports equipment, expenses towards boarding and lodging, sports kit, competition exposure, educational expenses, medical and insurance and stipend for day boarders as per the approved scheme norms.


    Although Sports is a State subject, Government of India is running a number of Schemes for promotion of sports through which Government extends requisite support and financial assistance for promotion and development of identified Sports in India through its various schemes in the country.


    Government is providing full assistance to the identified sportspersons/teams for intensive coaching through national coaching camps organized by the Sports Authority of India besides providing Foreign Exposures / Competitions and State-of-the-art equipment and Infrastructure. Government is also providing financial assistance to meritorious sportspersons under the National Sports Development Fund for personalized training/coaching under national /international coaches, participation in international tournaments held in India and abroad, purchase of sports equipment etc.


    In addition to above, Government of India is running a number of Schemes for the sportspersons such as Pension Scheme, Special (Cash) Awards, Sports Awards etc. which encourages younger generation to take-up sports as career.


    ****


    AD/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482397) Visitor Counter : 15