      President's Secretariat

      Harnessing Solar Energy is crucial, says President
      Posted On: 10 FEB 2017 4:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee inaugurated the first phase of a Solarization Project in the President’s Estate today (February 10, 2017) under which 670 KW of solar power will be generated through rooftop solar panels installed on seven buildings in the President’s Estate.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that the Rashtrapati Bhavan is not just the residence and office of the President of India but the President’s Estate is a small township which has grown and its requirement of energy has also been increasing. Depletion of energy resources poses a serious challenge particularly for future generations. He stated that India has signed the Paris Climate Change Agreement and has committed that by 2030, at least 40% of its electricity will be generated from non-fossil sources. He said that harnessing solar energy is crucial in this context. India has a target of reaching upto 100 GW of solar power generation by the year 2022. Thus, enhancing the capacity of solar power generation in the country becomes even more important to fulfill this commitment. He was happy that the President’s Secretariat has taken efforts in this direction.


    The President also appreciated the innovative ideas displayed in the Green Energy Exhibition held as part of the event. He wished the young students who presented a NukkadNatak and participated in modeling and painting competitions all success in their future endeavours. Skill development and carrier counseling classes for girl students of classes 11 and 12 of Dr. Rajendra Prasad SarvodayaVidyalaya were also inaugurated on the occasion by the Secretary to the President, Smt. Omita Paul.


    The savings in electricity bills resulting from the Solar Project are expected to be more than approximately Rs 80 lakh per year. The generation of solar power will result in significant reduction in carbon footprint and make the Estate more energy efficient. The Project is being implemented in President’s Estate in collaboration with Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).

    *****
    AKT/NT

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482468) Visitor Counter : 30