      Ministry of Defence

      DRDO young Scientists Meet
      Posted On: 13 FEB 2017 8:52PM by PIB Delhi


        

        DRDO Young Scientists Meet (YSM) 2017 was inaugurated today by Dr. S Christopher, Secretary, DDR&D and Chairman DRDO at Yelahanka, Bengaluru on the sidelines of Aero India Seminar. For the first time the event has been planned during Aero India to provide an opportunity for the young scientists to witness the biennial mega event.
        
        YSM is a two-day technical event with participation of young scientists coming from DRDO laboratories all over India. The program emphasizes on making participants to enthusiastically take part in various open competitions and team building activities. During the meet eminent experts and speakers from inside and outside DRDO deliver their talk to motivate the young minds.
        
        The meet offers young scientists from DRDO an opportunity to share and exchange scientific experience, present their work before the head of the organization and unleash their creative and innovative potential. The organizing team comprising young scientists under the age of 35 is given complete autonomy by DRDO headquarters to conduct the event right from the inception and planning to execution of the event.
        
        Dr. Christopher in his inaugural address highlighted the importance of innovations in the lives of young scientists. He reiterated that innovations can be achieved even in day-to-day activities and one has to apply his concentration towards achieving it. He also interacted with the participants individually and discussed their research areas.
        
        Dr. CP Ramnarayan, DG (Aeronautical Systems) at DRDO also addressed the audience and stressed on the importance of taking impartial decisions for the benefit of the organisation.
        
        Shri Md Hafizur Rahaman, Chief Controller R&D, HR, DRDO in his address asked the participants to think differently and set a goal with an aim of achieving it.
        
        Four young scientists also presented their views on ‘If I am the Chairperson of DRDO, what would be my key address areas’. The issues raised by the participants were aptly replied by the Chairman, DRDO.
        
        Center for Military Airworthiness & Certification (CEMILAC), a Bengaluru based DRDO establishment has been instrumental in organizing the event.
        
        ***** NW/NAo/Ranjan
    
    
    (Release ID: 1482640) Visitor Counter : 25