      Ministry of Power

      Innovate to bring down cost of Power:Shri PiyushGoyal
      Posted On: 13 FEB 2017 5:36PM by PIB Delhi

      

    Union Minister of State ( IC ) for Power, Coal, New and Renewable Energy and Mines, Shri PiyushGoyal, inaugurated NTPC's International Operation and Maintenance Conference IPS - 2017 ‘ Integration of Renewable Power in the Grid - Path Ahead ’ here today .


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Goyal said we are looking for innovative ways to bring down cost of power from such forums having representation from entire power sector . Shri Goyal, in his address, spoke on importance of sustainability, improving efficiency in cost effective manner . The Minister also released an e - compendium having extracts of papers to be presented in the conference along with learnings from 'near miss trips' from NTPC experience .


    Shri Goyal presented Business Excellence Awards to the top performing NTPC Stations Talcher Thermal, Rihand, Korba, Ramagundam and Vindhyachal . First ever generating unit of NTPC commenced generation at the flagship Singrauli power station, on the same day in 1982 .


    Other dignitaries present on the occasion were Shri A . S . Bakshi, Member CERC, Shri K . K . Arya, Member CEA, Shri Gurdeep Singh, CMD, NTPC and Shri K . K . Sharma, Director ( Operations ) along with distinguished power sector officials and professionals, technicalexperts from the industry, representatives from USA, Germany, Japan, UK, Austria as well as from domestic players Tata Power, Reliance, Jindal Power, ONGC, NLC, BBMB Bhakra, THDC and many State Sector Power companies . Power Sector Stake Holders CEA, CERC, APTEL, CPCB, manufactures and service providers GE, Alstom, BHEL, Hitachi, Toshiba, Dupontetc . are also associating with the event . Twenty international papers and eighty - two domestic technical papers from premier institutions like IIT Kharagpur, IIT Dhanbad, Jadavpur University shall be presented during the conference .


    *****


    RM / VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482596) Visitor Counter : 28