      AYUSH

      771468 registered practitioners of AYUSH throughout the country
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2017 5:47PM by PIB Delhi

      

    Public Health being a State subject, the primary responsibility to provide health care services lies with the respective State/UT Governments. However, Government of India through Centrally Sponsored scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) facilitates the promotion of AYUSH in the country including urban, semi urban and rural areas as per the following activities:

    (i) Co-location of AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centers (PHCs), Community Health Centers (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs).

    (ii) Up gradation of exclusive State Government AYUSH Hospitals and Dispensaries.

    (iii) Setting up of up to 50 bedded integrated AYUSH Hospital.

    (iv) Upgradation of State Government Educational Institutions.

    (v) Setting up of new State Government AYUSH Educational Institutions including Yoga and Naturopathy in the State where it is not available.

    (vi) Strengthening of State Government/ Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy (ASU&H) Pharmacies and Drug Testing Laboratories (DTL).

    (vii) Cultivation and Promotion of Medicinal Plants.

    With these measures, the Ministry has been able to expand its visibility and scope of AYUSH in the country significantly. There are 771468 AYUSH registered practitioners throughout the country as on 01.01.2016 who contribute to AYUSH health care services in the country including urban, semi-urban and rural areas. However, the data on para-medic staff for AYUSH systems of medicine is not maintained by the Central Government.

    With regard to funds allocation for promotion of AYUSH, budgetary allocation of Rs. 1326.20 Crore has been made to Ministry of AYUSH for various activities for the year 2016-17.

    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri ShripadYesso Naik in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.

    *****

    NB/SK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482053) Visitor Counter : 19