      Ministry of Textiles

      Union Textiles Minister to chair Stakeholders’ Meeting of Silk Industry
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2017 5:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Textiles is organizing a Silk Industry Stakeholders Meet on 10th February, 2017 in New Delhi, to discuss various issues related to the development of Indian silk industry. The Union Textiles Minister Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani will preside over the meeting. Minister of State, Textiles, Shri Ajay Tamta; Secretary, Textiles, Smt. Rashmi Verma and Chairman, Central Silk Board, Shri K.M. Hanumantharayappa will grace the occasion.


    The Union Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley; Union Minister of Agriculture, Shri Radha Mohan Singh; Union Minister for Science & Technology, Dr. Harsh Vardhan; Union Minister for Rural Development, Panchayat Raj and Drinking Water & Sanitation, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar; and Union Minister of State (I/C), Environment, Forests & Climate Change, Shri Anil Madhav Dave have been invited to grace the occasion.


    Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha), Bhagalpur, Bihar, Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey; Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha), Gorantla, Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh, Shri Nimmala Kristappa; Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha), Mysuru, Shri Pratap Simha; Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha), Akola, Maharashtra, Shri Sanjay Dattray; and Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha, Mangaldoi, Assam, Shri Ramen Deka, are also expected to participate.


    The meet is being held at Constitution Club of India, New Delhi, and will be attended by nearly 150 delegates including seri-farmers, seed cocoon growers, Chawki rearing centres, reelers, Automatic Reeling Machine entrepreneurs, retailers and exporters (both form Mulberry and Vanya sectors), besides senior officers from various union ministries, State Sericulture Departments, Bankers, CSB, NABARD, NIFT & NID.


    The meet is being organized by the Central Silk Board and will deliberate on the present status, plans, programmes and challenges ahead in the silk sector, and inter-ministerial issues, in order to bring about better synergy to ensure sustained development of the Indian silk industry. It is expected that the outcome of the Stakeholders’ meet will provide useful inputs for the National Textile Policy, which is under finalization.


    ***


    GG/DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482193) Visitor Counter : 75