      Ministry of Science & Technology

      International Conference on NexGen Technologies for Mining and Fuel Industries-NxGnMiFu-2017 inaugurated
      Posted On: 15 FEB 2017 6:35PM by PIB Delhi

      

    Union Minister for Science & Technology and Earth Science Dr. Harsh Vardhan has said that clean energy initiatives being taken by Government should be perceptible and bring measurable change in the lives of the common man. Inaugurating the International Conference on "NexGen Technologies for Mining and Fuel Industries" [NxGnMiFu-2017] in New Delhi today, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that this conference must look at the working conditions of the poorest of the poor/ the have-nots/ downtrodden and see how much scientific research can change and improve their lives.
    
    The Inaugural Function of the conference was also addressed by Dr. V. K. Saraswat, Member, NITI Aayog as Guest of Honour and presided over by Dr. G. Sahni, DG, CSIR and Secretary, DSIR. Eight distinguished luminaries from the mining and fuel sectors viz., Shri Rahul Guha, Director General Mines Safety; Shri Gopal Singh, CMD, Central Coalfields Ltd., Sri Laxman Shekhawat, COO, Hindustan Zinc Ltd., Dr. N. K. Nanda, Director, National Mineral Development Corporation, Prof. V. R. Sastry, NIT Surathkal, Karnataka, Prof S. Sampath, IISC, Bangalore, Shri K. K. Sharma, Director, NTPC and Shri Sanjiv Singh, Director, IOCL were felicitated for their outstanding contribution towards growth of the respective industries in particular and the Nation as a whole. Both the mineral and energy sectors today are at a critical juncture. The rapid expansions of both these sectors are necessary for inclusive growth of the country. At the same time the effects of these growth on the environment, landmass, forest inhabitants, etc. need to be simultaneously addressed. With a view to encourage initiative and make the mining and minerals industry more competitive, the Government of India has opened up the sector to private entrepreneurs. Efforts are also being made to boost the 'Research and Development' in these sectors because of the availability of the untapped potential in India.
    
    In this milieu, CSIR-Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research, Dhanbad has organised the International Conference on "NexGen Technologies for Mining and Fuel Industries" [NxGnMiFu-2017] during February 15-17, 2017 at New Delhi on the occasion of CSIR-Platinum Jubilee Celebration to commemorate 75th year of its foundation.
    
    The conference will focus mainly on issues related to Innovative Mining Technologies for Complex Geo-mining Conditions; Mine Safety, Monitoring and Risk Management; Clean Coal Initiatives; Coal to Liquid, Methanol and Urea; Harnessing Coal Bed Methane, Shale Gas and Underground Coal Gasification; Technological Developments in Oil and Gas Sectors and Alternate Clean Energy Initiatives. During these three days, it will be aimed to deliberate and identify the R&D needs to innovate new techniques, technologies and applications for clean, safe, symbiotic sustenance of society, environment and industries in post-2020 era.
    
    Around 800 delegates from India and abroad have confirmed participation in the conference representing policy makers, regulators, thought leaders, managers, entrepreneurs, administrators, practicing engineers, geo-environmentalists, researchers, academicians and technocrats. The startups, young researchers and students have been specially invited. Around 50 delegates from countries like, UK, Australia, China, Republic of Korea, Czech Republic, Germany, USA, Japan, Canada, South Africa, Nigeria etc. have registered as participants in the event. More than 170 papers will be deliberated in the Conference which includes 9 keynote papers by eminent personalities who have made significant contributions in their respective areas and 141 oral presentations and 21 poster presentations. The outreach of the conference is further augmented by two workshops, preceding the main event on “Challenges and Opportunities of Underground Coal Gasification” and “Emerging Mining Technologies and Low-Carbon Footprints with Waste Management”
    
    The event has got the support and sponsorship of various PSUs, Private Entrepreneurs and Multinationals, like, Coal India Limited, Vedanta-Hindustan Zinc Limited, Solar Industries India Ltd., National Thermal Power Corporation, National Mineral Development Corporation, Singareni Collieries Company Ltd., Tata Steel, Cotecna India Pvt. Ltd., Reliance Power, Maharashtra Power Generation Company Ltd., Madhya Pradesh Power Generating Co. Ltd., DVC, Jindal Steel & Power Limited and many others.
    
    During the Conference, an industrial exhibition is also being organised in the Vigyan Bhawan lawns and will run in parallel with the technical sessions from February 15-17, 2017. Various PSUs and multinationals have booked thirty stalls to showcase their Company’s profile and to network with global participants from the Industry, its suppliers and its customers. The list includes, National Thermal Power Corporation, Coal India Limited, Insmart Systems, National Mineral Development Corporation, AIMIL Pvt. Ltd., Solar Industries Pvt. Ltd., Ansari Precision Pvt. Ltd, Hindustan Zinc Ltd., South Eastern coalfields Ltd., etc.

    ---x---
    

    
    RDS/nb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482808) Visitor Counter : 150