      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Shri Radha Mohan Singh meeting with H.E. Shri Jon Georg Dale, Norwegian Minister for Agriculture
      
      
      Bilateral cooperation in fisheries between India and Norway has grown tremendously and there is great potential for enhancing the relationship in this sector.
      
      Good potential for cooperation with Norway in the field of dairying for increasing the yield of milk in India: Shri Singh

      Posted On: 16 FEB 2017 7:30PM by PIB Delhi
      

    Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri Radha Mohan Singh met H.E. Shri Jon Georg Dale, Norwegian Minister for Agriculture today in New Delhi. On this occasion, Shri Singh said that India and Norway have traditionally close relations and our efforts will be to maintain the same in future. Shri Radha Mohan Singh further said that bilateral cooperation in fisheries between India and Norway has grown and there is ample potential for furthering relationship in this sector.
    
    Shri Singh said that both countries can cooperate on developing and introduction of climate smart fishing techniques; to explore and develop technologies to capture underutilized fish resources; to increase the export of marine products. Shri Singh further said that Norway may also consider cooperation in the field of dairying for increasing the yield of milk in India.
    
    The Agriculture Minister appreciated the research work being done on CLIMAWATER, CLIMARICE and ClimaAdapt in Andhra Pradesh, Telengana and Tamil Nadu states in India by Norwegian Institute of Bio-economy Research (NIBIO), Ministry of Agriculture. ClimaAdapt focuses on climate change in the Agriculture and water sectors. Shri Singh hoped that Norway may consider extending the research programme to other states also.
    
    Shri Singh stated that India’s trade in agricultural commodities with Norway in 2014-15 included US$ 17.65 million in exports which increased to US$25.57 million the next year. Imports were of the order of US$ 2.48 million in 2015-16. Both the countries can, however, do much more in bilateral trade.
    
    India is a signatory of the Global Crop Diversity Trust since 2006 to ensure the long-term conservation and availability of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture to achieving global food security and sustainable agriculture. Accordingly, Government of India has deposited 25 accessions of pigeon pea (Arhar) to Svalbard Global Seed Vault in 2014 for safety duplication. GoI has now intended to deposit 100 accessions of Sorghum and 100 accessions of Paddy during the visit of Indian delegation in February, 2017.
    
    Shri Singh stated that our Government has put great focus on furthering relationships with likeminded countries, not only for catalyzing our trade and investment prospects but also sharing the knowledge that we have accumulated over the years with our friends. Shri Radha Mohan Singh hoped that Mr. Jon Georg Dale, Norwegian Minister for Agriculture’s visit to India will set a milestone in achieving the objective of expanding and strengthening bilateral ties between the two countries in the Agriculture sector.
    
    After that, Union Agriculture Minister has inaugurated the retail sale counter of National Seeds Corporation in Krishi Bhawan. In order to match up with the government campaign to provide food items on affordable prize to common man, National Seed Corporation is now entering in to the production of Rice, Wheat Flour, Pluses, mustard oil, Besan, Dalia, Oats etc along with value addition to the Seeds which is not suitable for sowing. Corporation has opened the Retail Sale Counter in Krishi Bhawan. These products will be supplied to the customers at reasonable rates under “Farm Sona” Brand of the Corporation. Corporation not only increased its revenue but non-seed will be utilized and also the food product will be provided directly from ‘farm to the kitchen’ of the consumer.
    
    Thereafter, Shri Singh inaugurated “Organic Cafeteria” in Krishi Bhawan to promote Organic farming. All food items in this “Organic Cafeteria” will be prepared of the organically produced raw materials. This Cafeteria will be run by Sikkim State Co- operative Supply, and Marketing Federation Ltd. (SIMFED).

    ***
    

    
    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482897) Visitor Counter : 77