      Ministry of Mines

      Shri Balvinder Kumar to inaugurate the 56th Meeting of the Central Geological Programming Board
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2017 6:13PM by PIB Delhi

      The 56 th Central Geological Programming Board (CGPB) meeting of the Geological Survey of India (GSI), Ministry of Mines is being held on 9-10 February, 2017in New Delhi under the Chairmanship of the Secretary, Ministry of Mines Shri Balvinder Kumar.

      During the 2-day meeting, the board will deliberate and discuss recommendations of all the 12 thematic committees of the CGPB as well as the State Geological Programming Boards (SGPBs) and finalize the Field Season Program of GSI for the year 2017-18. GSI has drawn up about 817 scientific programs for deliberation and finalization by the Board. This includes about 198 programs under mineral exploration. The finalization will take into consideration the priorities and importance set forth by the Government of India, through its various policy decisions. Last year GSI implemented 803 programs in all, which included 214 programs under mineral exploration.


      The Central Geological Programming Board (CGPB) is an important platform for the Geological Survey of India (GSI), Ministry of Mines wherein the Annual Field Season Program (FSP) of GSI is finalized. The members of CGPB and other stakeholders like State Governments, Central/State Government Exploration Agencies, PSUs etc. present their proposals for collaborative work with GSI. Based on the priorities set by the Government of India and the importance and urgency of proposals presented by the members and stakeholders, the Annual Program of GSI, for Survey & Mapping, Exploration, Research and Development, and Training & Capacity building, during the forthcoming financial year is given a final shape.


      The Ministry of Mines, Government of India, vide its notification dated 13 th March 2009 had revamped/ reconstituted the CGPB Committee into 12 theme-based groups. The main objective of this reconstitution was to enable the States and other Stakeholders to accrue benefit from wider participation and interaction with GSI to further their activities and avoid duplication. It provided a forum for better coordination between Central and State level stakeholders by encouraging the regular functioning of State Geological Programming Boards (SGPB), set up by the State Governments. The 12 Committees for the various sub-sectors comprise members and invitees from the concerned States and Agencies engaged in activities in the fields relevant to those sectors and present their recommendations to the CGPB.


      Shri Piyush Goyal, the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Power, Coal, New and Renewable Energy and Mines will address the concluding session on 10 th February 2017.


      The CGPB meeting will be attended by senior level officers of Ministry of Mines, GSI and members from other Central Ministries, State Directorates of Mining and Geology, mining industry, PSUs and other stakeholders.


      *****


      YSK/Uma

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482195) Visitor Counter : 180