      Ministry of Mines

      Shri Piyush Goyal launches TAMRA Portal and Mobile Applicationto ensure transparent award of Statutory Clearances for Mining Operations
      Posted On: 15 FEB 2017 7:23PM by PIB Delhi

      

      Union Minister of State ( IC ) for Power, Coal, New & Renewable Energy and Mines , Shri Piyush Goyal presided over the launching of the Transparency, Auction Monitoring and Resource Augmentation ( TAMRA ) Portal and Mobile Application, developed by the Ministry of Mines, here today . It was simultaneously launched across 12 mineral rich States . Shri Goyal also made an important announcement that the Government is planning on bringing amendments to mining rules to bring transparency in award of exploration and mining licences for the 100 identified off-shore mineral blocks soon.


      Informing the gathering about the salient features of TAMRA, Shri Goyal said that with an objective to enhance transparency and accountability, as a part of the Ease of Doing Business in the Mining sector, TAMRA is a step to speed up mining activity in India and facilitate all the stakeholders to track the status of the statutory clearances associated with mining blocks for getting mines to reach till operationalisation for the same . It will be an interactive platform for all the stakeholders to compress the timelines for statutory and other clearances as it would help minimize the gestation period for commencing production .


      Stressing on TAMRA ’ s features that would enhance transparency and accountability in Mining, Shri Goyal stated that in case ofdelay in obtaining any clearances, TAMRA will send triggersto the concerned authority so that the remedial steps can be taken immediately by those responsible . The Ministry of Mines will also receive triggers generated by TAMRA,which willfacilitate in expeditingclearancesin case the timelines set against each of the statutory clearances are not met . Further, the status of each of the clearances will be reflected on the portal . This portal also enables the successful bidder to give suggestions and other inputs for improving the current process of issuing Statutory clearances in the Mining Sector which would help to establish a participative and informative network among all stakeholders, the Minister added .


      Shri Balvinder Kumar, Secretary, Mines, earlier in his address, informed that TAMRA covers block - wise, state - wise and mineral - wise information of the mines to be auctioned, monitors various statutory clearances, and also highlights the additional resources generated through e - auction . Further, he also informed that e - auctions havesuccessfully been concluded for 21 mineral blocks put up for auction byvarious State governments with a total resource base of Rs . 93,190 crores . The total estimated revenueto the State governments through the process of e - auction stands at Rs . 73,359 crores . Out of this, the cumulative Royalty, District Mineral Fund ( DMF ) and National Mineral Exploration Trust ( NMET ) contribution works out to be Rs . 15,825 crores ( Rs . 14,130 crores, Rs . 1,413 crores and Rs . 283 crores, respectively ).


      Dignitaries present on the occasion included senior officers of the Ministry of Mines and stalwarts from the mining industry .


      The Flowchart of TAMRA is as follows :


      *****


      YSK / VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1482818) Visitor Counter : 53