      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      PM’s Awards for Excellence in Public Administration to be given on Civil Services Day
      Awards to be given in two categories: Excellence in implementation of Priority Programmes and Innovation in Public Governance
      
      Five priority programmes identified under excellence in implementation

      Posted On: 20 FEB 2017 6:25PM by PIB Delhi

    The ‘Prime Minister’s Awards for Excellence in Public Administration’ are instituted to acknowledge, recognize and reward extraordinary and innovative work done by Districts/Organizations of the Central and State Governments. The awards will be presented on Civil Services Day 2017 (21st April, 2017) to be organised by Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions. There shall be a maximum of 15 awards under the Priority Programme category and 2 awards under the Innovation category.


    For the Prime Minister’s Awards 2017 (‘PM Awards’), an innovative and competitive methodology has been adopted for wider participation. Districts across the country and Central and State Government Organisations were motivated to compete under the scheme. The registration was enabled through an online web portal created by Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG). Applications were received from 1st January 2017 to 25th January 2017 through the online portal. There has been an overwhelming participation of Districts and State and Central Government organisations. 1,515 applications have been received from about 600 districts across States/ UTs under the Priority Programmes category. 830 applications have been received from organizations of Central/ State Government/District under the Innovation category. The applications received will be evaluated on a holistic basis by high level committees at three levels. Shortlisted candidates shall make presentations and citizen feedback will also be obtained through a call center. Spot studies will be conducted to verify implementation of the programme/ initiative.


    Following priority programmes have been identified for awards under the scheme.


    1. Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY)


    2. Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY)


    3. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY)


    4. e – National Agriculture Market (e-NAM)


    5. Standup India/ Startup India


    In addition to the awards in Priority Programmes, awards shall be given to organizations of Central/State Government/District for innovations in Environment Conservation, Disaster Management, Water Conservation, Energy, Education and Health, Women and Child Centric Initiatives etc.


    Last year, the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi conferred awards for excellence in implementation of priority programmes on the occasion of 10th Civil Services Day on 21st April, 2016. For the priority programme Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJSY), Nagaon, Assam was awarded in North East and Hill States category, Chandigarh in UTs and North 24 Parganas, West Bengal in Other States group. Under Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin), West Sikkim and Bikaner, Rajasthan were awarded in North East & Hill states and Other States category respectively. Under Swachh Vidyalaya programme, Anantnag, Jammu and Kashmir, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Ananthapuramu, Andhra Pradesh were awarded in North East & Hill states, UTs and Other States group respectively. In the implementation of Soil Health Card Scheme, Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh and Balrampur, Chhattisgarh were conferred award in North East and Hill states and Other States respectively.


    ****


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483073) Visitor Counter : 54