      Ministry of Communications

      Telecom Exports from India to be the focus of ASEAN-India Digital Partnership
      Posted On: 19 FEB 2017 5:41PM by PIB Delhi

      To commemorate the 25 th year of the ASEAN India relations, TEPC (Telecom Equipment and Services Export Promotion Council) isorganizing an inter-ministerial meeting between telecom ministers of ASEAN countries and India in New Delhi on 20 th February, 2017. Minister of State for Communications (Independent Charge), Shri Manoj Sinha will lead the discussions from Indian side with telecom ministers, senior government officials and industry leaders from Bangladesh, Cambodia, Laos PDR, Indonesia and Bhutan.

    Indian Government has expressed keen interest to partner with ASEAN countries in enabling Digital Connectivity between India and ASEAN region and also for enabling broadband within ASEAN countries. These digital connectivity projects are of strategic importance and can have a transformative impact on the economy and cooperation between ASEAN and India. India has committed to provide financial as well as technological support for projects that could include-high-speed fiber optic networks, digital villages, rural broadband, national knowledge network, secured communication networks and telecom training and skill development.


    Indian companies who have created world-class products and solutions, which are not only of the highest quality and are also very cost-competitive, are keen to export to customers in ASEAN region, who have similar requirements like India.


    TEPC is organizing its flagship event “India Telecom 2017: An Exclusive International Business Expo” on 21-22 February 2017 at New Delhi at Shangri-La’s Hotel Eros in New Delhi, supported by the Government of India. This event will witness more than100 foreign high profile ICT industry delegates from 30+ countries. The main objective of the event is to provide opportunities to Indian telecom exporters including SMEs and Startups to meet qualified overseas buyers. This event provides one to one meeting opportunities between buyers from different countries and Indian exporters who can enlighten them about their products and technology solutions.


    <><><><><><>


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483022) Visitor Counter : 167