      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Nand Kumar Sai assumes charge as Chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Tribes
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2017 2:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Senior tribal leader from Chhattisgarh and ex parliamentarian Shri Nand Kuamr Sai assumed charge as the chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (NCST) today in New Delhi.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Sai said it will be his endeavor to protect rights of tribal living in far flung areas of the country. He said a large percentage of tribals in our country are still not aware of their rights guaranteed to them by the constitutions. Shri Sai said he will see to it that NCST is converted into an important tool for the overall social economic development of STs in the country.


    Earlier on his arrival to the office of NCST, Shri Sai was greeted by Vice Chairperson of NCST Miss Anusuia Uikey, Members Shri Bari Krishna Damor and Shri Harshadbhai Chunilal Vasava and Secretary of the Commission Shri Raghav Chandra.


    Born on January 1, 1946 at village Bhagora of Jaspur District in Chhattisgarh Shri Sai studied at NES college Jashpur and obtained Post Graduate degree in Political Science from Pt. Ravi Shankar Shukla University, Raipur.


    Shri Sai was elected to MP legislative assembly in 1977, 1985 and 1998. He was elected to Chhattisgarh legislative assembly in 2000 and was the first leader of opposition in the assembly. Shri Sai was elected to Lok sabha in 1989, 1996 and 2004. He was also elected to Rajya Sabha in 2009 and 2010. He also served as member of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Coal and Steel and member of the Parliamentary consultative committee of Ministry of Urban Development and Ministry of Social Justice and empowerment.


    Shri Sai has been actively involved in spread of education in tribal areas. An ardent supporter of prohibition Shri Sai has been in the forefront of various movements to oppose atrocities and exploitation of tribals.


    NCST was established by amending Article 338 and inserting a new Article 338A in the Constitution through the Constitution (89th Amendment) Act, 2003. By this amendment, the erstwhile National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes was replaced by two separate Commissions namely- (i) the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC), and (ii) the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (NCST) w.e.f. February 19, 2004.


    The term of office of Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and each member is three years from the date of assumption of charge. The Chairperson has been given the rank of Union Cabinet Minister and the Vice-Chairperson that of a Minister of State and other Members have the ranks of a Secretary to the Government of India.


    NCST is empowered to investigate and monitor matters relating to safeguards provided for STs under the Constitution or under other laws or under Govt. order. The Commission is also authorized to inquire into specific complaints relating to rights and safeguards of STs and to participate and advise in the Planning Process relating to socio-economic development of STs and to evaluate the progress of their development under the Union and States.


    The commission submits its report to the President annually on the working of safeguards and measures required for effective implementation of Programmers/ Schemes relating to welfare and socio-economic development of STs.


    Samir/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483381) Visitor Counter : 210