      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi chairs 75th meeting of Central Waqf Council in New Delhi, today
      Posted On: 27 FEB 2017 12:54PM by PIB Delhi

      The Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs (Independent Charge) & Parliamentary Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that some vested interests are creating various obstacles in development of waqf properties and utilisation of these properties for welfare of the society. Shri Naqvi said that serious irregularities in some State Waqf Boards have also come to notice. A high-level inquiry has been going on into these matters and strict action will be taken against those people who are responsible. Shri Naqvi stated it while addressing the 75th meeting of Central Waqf Council in New Delhi, today.
      The Minister said that proper utilisation of waqf properties is an important part of our efforts towards empowerment of Minorities. Several State Governments and Waqf Boards have been performing very well in this regard.
      Shri Naqvi said that Central Government is making efforts to ensure that all the waqf boards and their records across the country are made digital. Minority Affairs Ministry has been providing all possible help to the state waqf boards. The Computerisation of waqf boards and their properties will help in ensuring transparency.
      Shri Naqvi said that a one-man “Board of Adjudication” at the Central level has been established under the chairmanship of retired Supreme Court justice to deal with complaints and disputes regarding waqf properties. Three-member tribunals are being established in the states. About 24 states have established these tribunals so far. Other states should also do this soon.
      There are about 4,49,314 registered and non-registered waqf properties across the country. The number of these properties will be increased after computerisation of waqf boards. It has also been come to our notice that some waqf boards are not registering the waqf properties properly during the computerisation process. Strict action is being taken in such complaints.
      Shri Naqvi said that in the Budget 2017-18, Rs 3.30 crore has been allocated for computerisation of records of state waqf boards; Rs 9.70 crore have been given for strengthening of state waqf boards while Rs 3.18 crore have been allocated as grants-in-aid to Waqf.
      Shri Naqvi said that the Ministry of Minority Affairs under the guidance of Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been working towards socio-economic-educational empowerment of Minorities as a mission and commitment. Keeping this in mind, the Centre has increased the Budget of Minority Affairs Ministry in the Union Budget (General) 2017-18. This increased budget will be helpful in socio-economic-educational empowerment of Minorities.
      The Budget of Minority Affairs Ministry has been increased to Rs 4195.48 crore for 2017-18. This is Rs 368.23 crore more than 2016-17 Budget of Rs 3827.25 crore with an increase of about 9.6 per cent.
      Shri Naqvi said that the Government’s efforts for empowerment of Minorities include “Progress Panchayat”, “Hunar Haat”, “Gurukul” type residential schools, “Garib Nawaz Skill Development Centre”, “Begum Hazrat Mahal Scholarship” for girls, establishing five world class educational institutes for Minorities and 500 quality residential schools and job-oriented skill development centres.
      ****

    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483355) Visitor Counter : 215