      Vice President's Secretariat

      India-Rwanda Innovation Growth Program to expand ties in Science, Technology and Innovation: Vice President
      Addresses the India-Rwanda Business Forum

      Posted On: 21 FEB 2017 9:52AM by PIB Delhi
      
      
      

      The Vice President of India, Shri M. Hamid Ansari has said that India-Rwanda Innovation Growth Program is being launched to expand ties in Science, Technology and Innovation, and the program aims at creating an ecosystem wherein Indian innovations and technology enterprises will thrive and encourage business ventures from both sides. He was addressing the India-Rwanda Business Forum organized jointly by the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry and the Rwanda Development Board in Kigali, Rwanda, today. The Prime Minister of Rwanda, Mr. Anastase Murekezi and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.

      The Vice President said that Rwanda has put behind it the unfortunate genocide of 1994 and the efficient and clean city of Kigali captures the great strides that this country is taking on its path of growth and prosperity. He further said that Rwanda today offers a range of prospects to investors, including in renewable energy, infrastructure, agriculture, mining, tourism, and Information and Communications Technology. Trade between India and Rwanda has been gradually increasing over the last few years, he added.

      The Vice President said that several Rwandans have travelled to India for medical treatment and have come back satisfied. India is also increasingly becoming a preferred destination for quality and affordable education for Rwandan students, he added.

      The Vice President said that the translation of ideas and innovations into practical applications will require the 3 Ds of Discovery, Development and Delivery. We are now ready to work with our partners in Rwanda and other partners of Africa in transferring our experience in building an innovation driven economy, he added.

      Following is the Text of Vice President's address :

      " I convey my deep appreciation to the Hon’ble Prime Minister of Rwanda for his gracious presence here today. I also thank the Rwanda Development Board and the Private Sector Federation of Rwanda and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) for organizing this business event and for inviting me here.


      It is an exciting prospect to see the captains of trade and industry from Rwanda stand alongside members of Indian business Community and innovators from various parts of India. This portends well for the future of Rwanda-India commercial and economic relations.


      The efficient and clean city of Kigali, captures the great strides that this country is taking on its path of growth and prosperity. Rwanda has put behind it the unfortunate genocide of 1994 and has embarked on the path of economic development. Its economy has since made steady and considerable progress.


      Rwanda today offers a range of prospects to foreign investors, including in renewable energy, infrastructure, agriculture, mining, tourism, and Information and Communications Technology. The spectacular growth story of Rwanda, a result of the prudence and vision of Rwandan leadership, represents the dynamism and opportunities of African continent. Rwanda offers a wonderful platform to Indian partners to enhance their presence and capacities in other parts of Africa.


      Our bilateral relations are marked by cordiality, convergence of views and cooperation on major international issues. Bilateral trade and investments have shown a healthy rise. Trade between India and Rwanda has been gradually increasing over the last few years. Rwanda is also a beneficiary of the Duty Free Tariff Preference Scheme of the Government of India extended to Least Developed Countries. Rwanda can avail of this facility to increase their exports to India. In fact, one of the key elements of the joint declaration issued during the official visit of President Kagame to India last month was to double trade in the next five years.


      India is also a preferred destination for affordable and quality health care for Rwandans. Several Rwandans have travelled to India for medical treatment and have come back satisfied. India is increasingly becoming a preferred destination for quality and affordable education for Rwandan students. Every year more than 500 student visas are issued to Rwandan nationals.


      The Government of India also offers scholarships and fellowships to Rwandan students to enable them to pursue undergraduate, masters, post-graduate, and research courses in India under ITEC, ICCR, CV Raman Fellowship and Special Agricultural Scholarships. In addition to these, several short-term, fully-funded, training courses will be offerred to Rwandese nationals as part of the initiatives under the India –Africa Forum Summit.


      India-Rwanda Innovation Growth Program is being launched to expand ties in Science, Technology and Innovation. After this Pilot project, the programme is proposed to be implemented in the East African Community in seven countries and will then be scaled to seven other economic zones across Africa. Under the Programme, 20 demonstrated and validated Indian technologies and innovations are expected to be adopted over a period of two years. The joint ventures created with Rwandan partners can deliver many sustainable social enterprises that will stimulate economic development in Rwanda. The program aims at creating an ecosystem wherein Indian innovations and technology enterprises will thrive and encourage business ventures from both sides.


      The translation of ideas and innovations into practical applications will require the 3 Ds of Discovery, Development and Delivery . India has, over the years, developed certain expertise and skills in domains of low-capital intensive innovations. We are now ready to work with our partners in Rwanda and other partners of Africa in transferring our experience in building an innovation driven economy in Africa.


      I wish the Business Meet and Innovation Exhibition a great success. I am confident that bilateral relations between the two countries will grow further with more frequent exchanges between businesspersons for mutual benefits.


      Thank You.

      ***

      KSD/BK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1483097) Visitor Counter : 101