      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Sh. Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi chairs the first meeting of Committee on Cultural Harmony Conclave
      Posted On: 25 FEB 2017 8:39PM by PIB Delhi

      
      
      Ministry of Minority Affairs planning to host Cultural Harmony Conclave under “Hamari Dharohar” Scheme in New Delhi
      The Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs (Independent Charge),Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has said that India is enriched with talent in art-culture, music and literature and this rich cultural heritage can become an effective mission of “social and cultural harmony”. The first meeting of Committee on Cultural Harmony Conclave under “Hamari Dharohar” scheme of Minority Affairs Ministry was today held under the chairmanship of Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi in New Delhi. It was attended by several renowned artists, musicians, writers.
      
      Shri Naqvi said that every corner of our country is full of rich and exquisite cultural heritage, different languages, traditions and message of cultural harmony. It is the need of the hour to provide a platform and an opportunity to these talents.
      
      Shri Naqvi said that Centre is making all out efforts so that “Hamari Dharohar” scheme of Ministry of Minority Affairs can be helpful in Cultural Harmony Conclave. The Minister further said that Ghazals, poems, qawwalis, traditional songs-music can be utilized as an effective and constructive mission to shape, showcase and empower our cultural harmony and heritage.
      
      Shri Naqvi said that in different parts of the country, through “Hamari Dharohar”, not only the eminent artists but also those talented artists, who had not been given a platform and much attention yet, can be provided with an opportunity which will also convey the message of cultural harmony.
      
      Shri Naqvi said that programmes of ghazals, poems, qawwalis, traditional songs-music and dance can be organized in different parts of the country under “Hamari Dharohar” scheme. A high level committee, constituted in this regard, will chalk out a framework for the entire process including nature of the programme, venues, dates, months and the participant musicians, lyricists, dancers, singers and other artists.
      
      Sarod player Ustad Amjad Ali Khan, actor Tom Alter, Ghazal singer Penaj Masani, Punjabi singer Hans Raj Hans, actor Aamir Raza Hussain, poet Ashok Chakradhar, film director Devender Khandelwal, social activist Kulsoon Saifullah, lyricist Sameer, writer Rumy Jafry, DG ICCR Amarendra Khatua, Hindi poet Gajender Solanki, former Ambassador Ashok Sajjanhar, film director Nitin Mavani are the members of the committee on Cultural Harmony Conclave under “Hamari Dharohar”.
      
      Most of these members attended today’s meeting. The Ministry has been planning to organize the first programme of cultural harmony conclave at Delhi’s Purana Quila.
      
      BCK/AK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1483315) Visitor Counter : 108