      Ministry of Railways

      Minister for Railways holds a video conference with the Director Generals/Commissioners of Police of all States/Union Territories
      Railway Minister Emphasises on Sharing of Intelligence and the Need to Have a Forensic Science Lab for Railways
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2017 3:07PM by PIB Delhi


    In the light of recent repeated incidents of placing obstruction on railway tracks and attempts of cutting of railway tracks by miscreants, Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu, held a video conference yesterday i.e. 27.02.2017 with the Director Generals/Commissioners of Police of all States/Union Territories in the Rail Bhawan, New Delhi. During the video conference, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, Minister of State for Home Affairs was also present. Member Staff Railway Board Shri Pradeep Kumar, Member Traffic Railway Board Shri Mohd. Jamshed, Other Railway Board Members, other senior officials of Railway Board, senior officers from Ministry of Home Affairs, RPF & Police also took part in the meeting.
    
    On the occasion Shri Suresh Prabhu emphasised the need for better cooperation and coordination between agencies involved for passenger safety and security. Rewarding Security personnel for outstanding job done to prevent sabotage in Railways, sharing of intelligence and the need to have a Forensic Science Lab for Railways were the highlights of his address. He thanked the DGPs of States and UTs for their active cooperation.
    
    Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in his address shared his concern about recent criminal activities on Railways resulting in accidents. He advised State Police to be careful about the designs of criminals and anti national elements and render fullest cooperation to Railways.
    
    Member Staff Railway Board Shri Pradeep Kumar also addressed the genuine concerns of the State Police/GRP pertaining to the Railways.
    
    DG, RPF Shri S.K.Bhagat in his welcome address highlighted major incidents of sabotage that occurred during the year 2015 and 2016 and expressed his concern over the sharp increase in such cases during the year 2017. He also mentioned that three cases have been entrusted to NIA for investigation and one case has been referred to CBI for investigation. All the participants of States and UT shared their expectations from Railways and also gave valuable suggestions to improve safety and security of Railways.

    ***
    

    
    AKS/MKV/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483384) Visitor Counter : 15