      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Finance Minister will leave tomorrow for London, UK on a five-day official visit: FM to hold business interaction with UK-India Business Council, meet his UK counterpart and the Chancellor of Exchequer ,To deliver talk at London School of Economics on ‘Transforming India: Vision for the Next Decade” among others.
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2017 5:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Aurn Jaitley will leave early morning tomorrow on a five day official visit to London U.K. from 24th to 28th February, 2017. On Saturday, 25th February, 2017, the Finance Minister will deliver a talk at London School of Economics on ‘Transforming India: Vision for the Next Decade”.
    
    On Sunday, 26th February, 2017, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will attend a reception being organised by Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), British Council and Indian High Commission at UK.
    
    On Monday, 27th February, 2017, the Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley will perform Market Opening Ceremony at London Stock Exchange followed by a Roundtable Meeting with prospective issuers and leading investors and fintech leaders among others. Later in the day, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will have Business interaction with over 100 senior business leaders from the UK-India Business Council (UKIBC). Later, the Finance Minster will call on The Rt. Hon Boris Johnson, Foreign Secretary of UK.
    
    The Finance Minister will also attend a reception being hosted by Her Majesty, the Queen at Buckingham Palace in the evening on that day.
    
    On Tuesday, 28th February, 2017 the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will also meet with his UK counterpart and the Chancellor of Exchequer. Thereafter, the Finance Minister will meet with CEOs at a meeting being organized by the Confederation of British Industry before leaving back for home in the evening on the same. The Finance Minister will arrive in the national capital early morning on 1st March, 2017 after completing his five day official visit to the U.K.

    *****
    

    
    DSM/VKS/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483282) Visitor Counter : 13