      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley to felicitate the winners of HCL Grant 2017 tomorrow
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2017 6:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley will be the Chief Guest on the occasion of HCL Grant 2017 ceremony. He will deliver the Keynote Address after felicitating the winners of second HCL Grant at the ceremony to be held in HCL Technologies Hub, Noida (UP) tomorrow. Mr. Malcolm Gladwell, an eminent author and a special guest on the occasion will also address the august gathering comprising of Board members, senior leadership and eminent people from various walks of life.


    ​ ​


    HCL Grant, a CSR commitment by HCL through HCL Foundation, envisions to contribute to rural development by strengthening NGOs through deep institutional involvement and commitment. In the second edition of the grant, winning NGOs will receive Grant of up to R ​s.


    5 crore each – a total of Rs.​15 crore. The winning NGO’s will be from Education, Healthcare and Environment category. These NGOs have been selected through a rigorous selection process consisting of distinguished jury members;


    ​


    The winning NGOs will be selected by an eminent jury panel. Members of the panel are Ms. Robin Abrams – Former President of Palm Computing, and the longest serving Board member of HCL Technologies, Dr. Isher Judge Ahluwalia - Leading Economist and Chairperson, Board of Governors, the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, Ms. Pallavi Shroff - Eminent Legal Counsel, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co., Mr. B.S. Baswan - Former Director, Indian Institute of Public Administration, Mr. Richard Lariviere - President, Field Museum, Chicago and Former President of the University of Oregon, Dr. John E. Kelly – Senior Vice President, Cognitive Solutions and Research, IBM Corporation and Mr. Shiv Nadar – Founder & Chairman, HCL and Shiv Nadar Foundation.


    ​ ​


    **********


    DSM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483072) Visitor Counter : 9