      Ministry of Defence

      Admiral Sunil Lanba, Chief of Naval Staff on Official Visit to United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Oman
      Posted On: 25 FEB 2017 8:38PM by PIB Delhi

      

        Admiral Sunil Lanba, Chief of the Naval Staff, Indian Navy is visiting United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Oman on a bilateral visit from 26 February to 02 March 2017. The visit aims to consolidate bilateral naval relations with UAE and Oman, as also to explore new avenues for naval cooperation.


        The CNS will be commencing his bilateral visit from UAE on 26 February 2017, where he will hold bilateral discussions with the His Excellency Mohammed bin Ahmad Al Bowardi, Hon’ble Minister of State for Defence of UAE, Lieutenant General Hamad Mohammed Thani Al Rumaithi, Chief of Staff, UAE Armed Forces and Rear Admiral Ibrahim Salim Mohammed Al Musharrakh, Commander of UAE Naval Forces. The Admiral will be visiting the Ghantoot Naval Base, where he will briefed on the latest Baynunah Class Corvette. He will also visit the National Defence College of UAE, where he will interact with the Student Officers, and also tour the training facilities at the Rashid Bin Saeed Al Maktoum Naval College of UAE. The Admiral will also lay a wreath at the Wahat Al Karama Memorial.


        On completion of his visit to UAE, the CNS will be visiting Oman from 01 March 2017, where he will hold bilateral discussions with His Excellency Bader Bin Saud Bin Harib Al Busaidi, Hon’ble Minister Responsible for Defence Affairs of Oman, as also the three Service Chiefs. The Admiral will visit the Sultan Qaboos Naval Academy, the Said Bin Naval Base, where he will also visit the Fleet Maintenance Facility and the latest Khareef Class corvette, RNOV Al Shamikh.


        The Indian Navy cooperates with both the navies of UAE and Oman on many fronts, which include Training, Operational interactions and exchange of ‘White Shipping Information’, through the medium of Navy-to-Navy Staff Talks with both countries, as also through Joint Defence Cooperation Committee (JDCC) with UAE and Joint Military Cooperation Committee (JMCC) with Oman. In addition, the Indian Navy and the Royal Navy of Oman have been conducting the bilateral Maritime Exercise ‘Naseem Al Bahr’ since 1993. Ten editions have been held so far, the last being held off Goa in January 16.


        DKS/AC

    

    
    (Release ID: 1483313) Visitor Counter : 22