      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      India & Ukraine to strengthen bilateral cooperation through Cinema
      I&B Minister meets Ukrainian Delegation
      Posted On: 27 FEB 2017 12:52PM by PIB Delhi

      India and Ukraine have agreed to strengthen the bilateral cooperation between the twocountries through the medium of Cinema. The cooperation would be worked out through a policy and institutional framework to showcase films through the medium of Film Festivals and utilizing the Film Facilitation Office platform established by India. The screening of films with subtitles was also discussed in order to reach out to people. These issues were discussed during the meeting between Shri M Venkaiah Naidu, Minister for Information & Broadcasting and Ukrainian delegation led by Mr. Iurii Artemenko, Member of the Parliament of Ukraine and Chairman of the National Council of Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine today in New Delhi. Minister of State for Information & Broadcasting Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore and Secretary I&B were also present during the discussions.
      Pic: Shri Venkaiah Naidu Minister for I&B presenting the Collected works of Mahathma Gandhi to Mr. Iurii Artemenko
      During the discussions, Shri Naidu said that Ministry of Information & Broadcasting would extend all possible support to promote exchange programs between public broadcasters of the two countries, content creation, screening and distribution of films. The possibility of translating programs and content and providing subtitles in respective languages of both the countries was also discussed with respect to the Public Broadcasters of both the countries.
      Shri Naidu also apprised the delegation about the Film Facilitation Office recently setup in the Ministry to facilitate single window clearance for film makers. The FFO act as a facilitation point for film producers and assist them in obtaining requisite permissions, disseminate information on shooting locales as well as the facilities available with the Indian film industry for production/post production.
      Mr. Iurii Artemenko, said that Ukraine Government were taking efforts to organise an Indian Film Festival in Ukraine to promote Cultural ties between the two countries through the medium of Cinema. He extended a personal invitation to I&B Minister for the Film Festival to be organised in the near future. He also expressed interest for showcasing programmes based on Indian weddings, Touristic places such as Rajasthan and different Indian Cuisines.
      Deliberations were also held for organising Film Festivals showcasing each other’s movies in respective countries and the possibility of participating in Film Festivals as Partner Countries.
      CP/GV
    
    
    (Release ID: 1483353) Visitor Counter : 141