      Ministry of Defence

      Aero India 2017 draws to a close
      Posted On: 18 FEB 2017 6:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Curtains came down on the Aero India – 2017 at Air Force Station Yelahanka in Bengaluru today. Having evolved over the years, the 11th edition of the event went through smoothly without a glitch drawing unprecedented crowds that bear testimony to the premier Air Show of Asia having come of age.

    The highlights of this year’s show have been:

    (a) Participation from 270 Indian Companies and 279 foreign companies. That is a total of 549 companies.
    (b) The gross area grew from 2,50,000 Sq Mtrs last time to 2,60,000 Sq Mtrs in this edition.
    (c) A total of 72 aircraft participated in the show.
    (d) Several seminars were conducted by State Governments.

    The first three days at the show, earmarked exclusively for business visitors saw a foot fall of approximately 1.5 lakh. The air show saw a lot of activity from business point of view and witnessed several round table meets. The show was a success.

    The push that the show gives to the ‘Make in India’ campaign of the Government of India by virtue of its sheer magnitude and presence of stake holders from across the globe cannot be over emphasized.

    The awe-inspiring manoeuvres by various types of aircraft and formations enthralled the audience – young and old alike, every single day. The flying displays went smoothly with immaculate precision painting a colourful aerial symphony in the clear Bengaluru skies twice every day.

    The last two days at the event saw an unprecedented foot fall of approximately four lakh people swarming in to the venue to catch a glimpse of their heroes in their magnificent flying machines.

    The Directorate of Public Relations, Ministry of Defence, empowered by their recent forays into the social media, with their consistent efforts ensured timely updates and wide outreach to enthusiasts around the globe.

    *****

    AB/AM/NAo/Ramesh
    
    
    (Release ID: 1483014) Visitor Counter : 22