      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh inaugurates Jammu Art Exhibition at Delhi
      Posted On: 27 FEB 2017 1:02PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh inaugurated a group exhibition of paintings by Jammu artists at Lalit Kala Akademi here today. While inaugurating the exhibition, he said that Jammu has creative talent in abundance, but needs more exposure.
    
    Speaking to media persons after visiting the various displays at the exhibition venue, Dr Jitendra Singh said that wider exposure has dual advantage for the artist. On the one hand, he said, it enables an artist with a creative potential to get the opportunity of reaching out to larger horizons, while on the other hand, it also promotes competitive spirit among the artists. He said that earlier also, he has been encouraging artists and sculptors to put up their displays in the national capital and he would continue to encourage them in future as well. He said that he has suggested them to collectively select some of their best creations which could later be put on exhibition on a wider scale in other cities, like Mumbai and Chennai.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh said that more updated and latest methods of art propagation should be adopted. Elaborating further, he said, for example, in today’s time, an artist can use social media options to achieve worldwide reach for his creation even without booking a gallery hall or spending much money. Accompanied by artists Mahesh Sharma, Vijay Anand and Sanjay Sharma, the Minister discussed the theme and the colour technique with the respective artists.
    
    The various displays put up in the exhibition included abstract paintings with focus on essence of nature, figurative and realistic works representing the magnanimous landscape and paintings with bold palette nice strokes.

    ****
    

    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483357) Visitor Counter : 16