      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Dr Jitendra Singh and Shri Kiren Rijiju felicitate sportspersons of North-Eastern States, who participated in Rio Olympics, 2016
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2017 8:24PM by PIB Delhi

      

    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh and the Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Kiren Rijiju felicitated the sportspersons of North-Eastern States, who participated in Rio Olympics, 2016, at a function organized here today.


    The sportspersons who were felicitated by the Ministers at the function included Ms. Dipa Karmakar (Gymnastics), Ms. P. Sushila Chanu (Hockey- Women), Ms. H. Lal Ruatfeli (Hockey- Women), Ms. L. Bombayla Devi (Archery), Shri K. Chinglensan Singh (Hockey- Men), Shri K. Kothajit Singh (Hockey-Men) and Ms. Saikhom Mirabai Chanu (Weightlifting). Two more Olympians from North East who were to be felicitated today by the Ministry and could not attend the function included Shri Shiva Thapa (Boxing) and Miss T. Anuradha Devi (Hockey-Women). Each sportsperson was presented with cash award of Rs 2.00 lakh and given a memento.


    While interacting with the sportspersons from North East, DoNER Minister Dr Jitendra Singh said that the North Eastern Region is on a high priority for the Central Government. It is evident from the fact that three months after taking over as the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi announced the setting up of a Sports University in Manipur, he added. He said that the Central Government is making all efforts in materializing this project and pursuing with the Manipur Government.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that youth are an important part of the society and can contribute to the development of nation. For this to happen, their energies should be channelized in the right direction, he added. The Minister said that the Central Government has given special focus on the education and sports activities of the youth. He said that the Government had announced the setting up of a Center for Brahmaputra Studies in the Guwahati University. He said that ‘Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Center for Policy Research and Analysis’ was formally launched in October 2016 at the Rajiv Gandhi Indian Institute of Management (RGIIM), Shillong. The Centre will provide strategic policy support on livelihood, Act East Policy, Biodiversity, Organic Food Basket, Bamboo Mission and Horticulture.


    While interacting with the sportspersons, the DoNER Minister said that the youth from the North East have huge potential to excel in the sports and can bring laurels to the country if promoted and trained adequately. He said that the youth are mostly getting training on voluntary and informal basis, but they need institutionalised training to excel at the international stage. He said that the performance by Ms. Dipa Karmakar in Gymnastics at Rio Olympics has encouraged youth from the North Eastern states. The Minister said that the youth can excel in other sports also and for that, the Ministry of DoNER is always ready to cooperate with Sports and Youth Affairs Ministry in this regard. The Minister said that there is lot to learn from North East for the rest of India.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Kiren Rijiju said this is a small symbolic gesture from the Ministry of Home Affairs. Shri Rijiju said that the players participated in the Games with full dedication. Winning and losing did not matter, he added. While the MHA deals with security matters, the felicitation ceremony is an effort to encourage people of the NER to participate in sports activities, he added. Shri Rijiju said the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has already drawn up a big plan for the Olympics, preparing to boost India’s medals tally in the next two Olympics. He congratulated the players for earning name not only for the North East, but for the country.


    Shri Kiren Rijiju and Dr Jitendra Singh later conveyed their best wishes to the players and said that the Government is always there to help them and encourage them in their efforts.


    The Members of Parliament from NER and senior officers from Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Development of North-Eastern Region were also present on the occasion.


    ***


    KSD/NK/PK/KM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1483440) Visitor Counter : 43