      Ministry of Culture

      Six Day Extravaganza of Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav 2019 concludes in Rewa, Madhyapradesh today
      Posted On: 21 OCT 2019 8:10PM by PIB Delhi


      ‘Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav (RSM) -2019’ a diversified cultural carnival organized by Ministry of Culture Madhya Pradesh concluded today in Rewa with a dazzling closing ceremony graced by the esteemed presence of the Union Minister of state for Culture and Tourism (I/C), Prahlad Singh Patel as chief guest.


      Union Culture Minister of state for Culture and Tourism (I/C), Shri. Prahlad Singh Patel appreciated the continuous efforts of the Ministry of Culture and local organisers for building this necessary and beautiful festival for youth and old like where they could experience the glimpse of entire country under one small tent: amalgamation of food, dance, entertainment, performances and shopping delights all pointing towards one goal which is Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat.


      Showering love and admiration, people attended the valedictory of the cultural extravaganza in large numbers. Rasthriya Sanskriti Mahotsav commenced its journey from the Jabalpur's Mahakoshal Shaheed trust, Gol Bazaar area, showcasing an amalgamation of Crafts & Art Forms, Cuisine Fest and Magnificent Performances and concluding at Thakur Ranmat Singh College Maidan, Dhyanchand Stadium at Rewa today. The festival received continuous gratitude for playing a major role to effectively connect the audience to the rich, diverse and unexplored culture of India under the umbrella of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat.


      Rewa witnessed largest amount of visitors beyond expectations, the venue was jam-packed with audiences attending the concluding ceremony for it's promising grand nature. Local MLAs, Dignitaries and officials of Ministry of Culture were also present in the occasion.


      Second and concluding day at Rewa opened with Sushma Shukla and group's Bagheli Folk-geet presentation which connected the locals of Madhya Pradesh as it celebrated the traditional culture of the state's age-old music tradition. A literary presentation of 'Mushaira' where 10 acclaimed poets came together to present their 'Shaayeri', quite progressive for their current time. Kathak Dance presentation by renonwed international Kathak artist, Sushree Arushi Nishank was admired by the audience.


      Acclaimed Choreographer, Dr. Prasanna Gogoi enthralled the audience with his beautiful choreography of 400 artists' under all seven zonal cultural centres of Ministry of Culture, performing together showcasing their beautiful song and dance forms across the states; Namely, Kohli from Maharashtra, Natua from West Bengal, Jamro from Ladakh, Rauf from Kashmir, Lambadi from Telengana winning hearts of all, present at the main venue.


      Other than the cultural performances, Two days at Rewa Chapter of the Mahotsav are having craftsmen across the states exhibiting and selling their handicrafts, from Rajasthan, Goa, Odisha, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Telengana, and Karnataka. All other Zonal Cultural Centres has put up stalls exhibiting their concerned states’ authentic and genuine art and craft items.


      Under the banner of Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat matrix, Rastriyat Sanskriti Mahotsav has been receiving continuous praise and popularity among the masses of our country for playing a major role to bridge our cultural diversity with the ancient ideal of ‘Oneness in all’ and 'Unity in Diversity', it has been successful in receiving commendable amount of love and admiration by artists and audiences alike this year, as it gave them an opportunity to showcase and discover rare and unexplored cultural traditions of our country.


      In its journey of 6 days in Madhya Pradesh, the festival promoted India’s rich Heritage by showcasing the flavours of folk dances to the citizens’ of Jabalpur, Sagar and Rewa. The festival brought together performers from across the country sharing the stage and filling it with their colourful array of folklores by performing folk dance forms from all over India.


      second day at Rewa announced its conclusion with serene performances in the order of Flute Meastro Ronu Majumder's soulful presentation of the classical instrument, succeeding by, Tanushree Shankar's graceful Bharatnatyam presentation; and lastly, playback singer Anuradha Paudwal's magnificent performance.


      *******


      NB /AKJ/ OA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1588679) Visitor Counter : 283
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi