      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ inaugurates mega “KVS-Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Parv” at India Gate today
      Posted On: 31 OCT 2019 7:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ inaugurated the four day megacultural and literary youth extravaganza “KVS- Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Parv” to celebrate nation’s Unity in Diversity and to reconnect and preserve the widespread emotional bonds among the people of the country at India Gate, Lawn No. 6 today. MoSforHRD Shri. Sanjay ShamraoDhotre graced the occasion as Guest of Honour. Ms. Anita Karwal, Chairperson, CBSE was among the prominent attendees along with senior officials of HRD ministry, KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan (KVS) and NavodayaVidyalayaSamiti.


    This year 2375 participants have come together to be a part of this mega event. The unique feature of this event is that the students of one part of the nation exhibit the cultural diversity of the other part of the country and the world.


    Union MinisterforHumanResource Development,Shri. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in his speech praised and motivated all KVS participants who have gathered to celebrate 4 day long mega event “KVS- Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Parv” at India Gate.


    The Minister said thatit’s a great opportunity to be a part of “KVS- Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Parv”. I am amazed to witness our young students, spreading message of national unity and integrity. KVS is playing a prominent role in order to achieve the dream of “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat”, he added. While continuing his inspiring speech, Shri Pokhriyaladded “In our journey of making and forming a new India it is our challenge to be a world leader in the fields of Science and Education by 2021.” The Minister also urged CBSE to extend the Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat to all CBSE affiliated schools across the country.


    While addressing the event Minister of State for Human Resource Development,Shri Sanjay ShamraoDhotre paid his homage to the first Home Minister of India, SardarVallabh Bhai Patel and highlighted his contribution in integrating 560 princely states with the union of India. . He also commended the KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan for organizing "Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Parv" and wished it would be organized even on a larger scale in coming years. He also added that India is a unique country wherein around 1600 languages are spoken and so many different cultures co-exist. “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Parv” is true reflection and celebration of this harmonious co-existence. He expressed his happiness after witnessing that the students of KendriyaVidyalayas coming from different regions orchestrated the tableau and culture of the state different from their own.


    Shri. Santosh Kumar Mall, Commissioner, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, in his welcome speech greeted the Chief Guest and discussed the idea of EBSB Parv with the august gathering. He quoted “KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan ‘Ek Bharat-Shrestha Bharat Parv’, aims to actively enhance interaction between students of diverse cultures living in different States of India, with the objective of promoting greater mutual understanding amongst them. ”


    On the first Day of the mega parv “ShobhaYatra” a cultural march-past was showcased by participants to objectify the vision behind this great celebration. Being first time since the inception of KVS “EK BHARAT-SHRESHTH BHARAT PARV” ShobhaYatra was accompanied by song, dance and artefacts in the background was a moment to witness.


    Also other competitions were conducted for various events like Group Dance of different states and countries, Theatre on pertinent issues, Quiz, Creative Writing, Spell Bee, Debates, Painting and solo song.


    To add to pleasant flavors of Indian culture and traditions, participants from all 25 KVS regions are paired to represent another state different than their own. The concept behind this is to celebrate the idea of India as a nation wherein different cultural units across varied geographies coalesce and interact with each other, this glorious manifestation of diverse cuisine, music, dance, theatre, handicrafts, sports, literature, festivals, painting, sculpture, etc. will enable people to imbibe the innate chord of binding and brotherhood.


    All the 25 regions of KVS are allotted one state different from their own state and one Country. The students prepare projects/exhibits on the culture, customs, dress, crops, economy, climate etc. of the state and of the country allotted to them.


    This year 28 competitive events are going to take place in this Parav. Some of the prominent events are:


    Group Song


    ShobhaYatra or Cultural March Past


    Group Dance (State & International)


    Theatre


    On the Spot Painting


    Solo Singing


    Solo Classical Dance


    Display of Artefacts.


    Debate (Hindi & English)


    Quiz


    Sanskrit Shloka Recitation


    Hindi KaavyaPaath


    English Elocution


    Creative Writing


    Spee-Bee


    Sangeet Kala Sangam (By KV Teachers)


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589857) Visitor Counter : 415
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi