      Prime Minister's Office

      PM urges tech community to participate in Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge
      Posted On: 04 JUL 2020 5:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has urged the tech community to participate in the Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge.


    In a post published on LinkedIn, Prime Minister mentioned about the vibrant tech and start up ecosystem in India and how the youngsters have excelled in providing tech solutions across sectors. He said that there is a lot of enthusiasm among the start-up and tech ecosystem to innovate, develop and promote homegrown apps, adding that while the nation is working towards creating an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, it is a good opportunity to give direction and momentum to evolve apps which can satisfy our market as well as compete with the world.


    With this objective in mind, the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology along with Atal Innovation Mission has come up with the Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation challenge which will run in two tracks: promotion of existing apps and development of new apps. This challenge will be jointly hosted by the Government and members of the tech community to make it more holistic.


    For promotion of existing apps and platforms across the categories of e-learning, work-from-home, gaming, business, entertainment, office utilities, and social networking, the government will provide mentoring, hand-holding and support. Track-01 will work in mission mode for identifying good quality apps for the leader-board and shall be completed in around a month. For incubating new apps and platforms, Track-02 initiative will work to help create new champions in India by providing support in ideation, incubation, prototyping and roll out along with market access.


    The outcome of this challenge will be to give better visibility and clarity to existing apps to achieve their goals, and to create tech products to find solutions to tech conundrums with the help of mentorship, tech support and guidance during the entire life-cycle, the Prime Minister wrote.


    Prime Minister shared ideas and asked if technology can help make traditional Indian games more popular, if apps can be developed to help people in rehabilitation or getting counselling or if apps with targeted and smart access to the right age group for learning, gaming, etc can be developed. He urged the tech community to participate and help create an Aatmanirbhar App Ecosystem.


    *****


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1636428) Visitor Counter : 1280
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam