      PIB Headquarters

      Shri Mansukh Mandaviya presents report card on 100 days of Modi Government 2.0
      • Paradip to be developed as a Smart Industrial City, says Mandaviya
      • Odisha receives highest CAMPA allocation of Rs 5933.98 Cr
      • Minister releases Jan Connect booklet
      Posted On: 09 SEP 2019 5:10PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    Bhubaneswar, Sept 9: The port city of Paradip will be developed as a Smart industrial city. Land bid is being allotted to emerging companies, which will pave the way for employment generation in the State, said Union Minister of State for Shipping (I/C) and Chemicals and Fertilisers, Shri Mansukh Mandaviya while highlighting the success and key decisions taken by Shri Narendra Modi 2.0 Government in a Press Conference organized by Press Information Bureau here Monday.


    Addressing the Press, Shri Mandaviya said, The Government under the visionary and dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken a number of bold and historic decisions within the first hundred days of its second innings. Abrogation of Article 370 and 35A for the betterment of the people in Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, three percent reservation for the defence personnel working in the border, economic reforms to strengthen the treasury, legislation against Triple Talaq and death penalty for sexual assault against children are a few major decisions taken by the Government during this period which were pending since long.


    Speaking about the centre’s decision on Odisha the minister said, “Highest ever allotment-a total of Rs 4678.22 crore has been sanctioned to Odisha for cyclonic storm Fani. Before the cyclone hit Odisha Rs 340 crore was given in advance. Later the Prime Minister announced Rs 1000 crore when he came to visit Odisha. Finally an additional amount of Rs 3338.22 crore was sanctioned.


    Odisha has received the highest allocation of Rs 5933.98 crore under Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA Fund). In the Union budget 2019-20, Odisha has also been allocated an all-time high Rs 5993 crore for the railway sector.”


    The Minister said about large scale investment in infrastructure and social sector. Around Rs 100 lakh Cr will be invested in the infra sector. Likewise, Government is focused on ease of doing business, reduction of physical interference and transparency in GST and IT return filing process; Jal Shakti Abhiyaan, Har Ghar Bijli Yojna, Ujjwala scheme for gas connections, Ayushman Bharat, Jan Aushadhi Kendra, social sector protection to unorganised sector workers and small traders and financial assistance to farmers, reforms in law, empowerment of defence and empowerment of scheduled tribes.


    “The Government has kept its promise. We have fulfilled everything that we had promised in our election manifesto within the 100 days of Modi 2.0 Government. We have taken the decision to deposit Rs 6,000 to the accounts of every farmer in the country. We have also decided to provide Rs 3,000 pension per month to every retired farmer. Even the Government has decided to give pensions to the workers of the unorganised sector and small traders. The government is committed for the ease of living of the poor, farmers, weak and marginalised sections of the society. To provide affordable quality medicines we have opened 5,500 Jan Aushadhi Kendras throughout the country. Three hundred new centres are also in the offing,” the minister stated.


    Answering a question on the economic slowdown the minister said that the slowdown is only transitory. “Recession is going out throughout the world. The fundamentals of the Indian economy are strong and we are least affected by it. I hope after the end of the year the economy will revive again,” the minister concluded.


    Shri Mandaviya also inaugurated the ‘Jan Connect booklet’ on 100 days of bold initiative and decisive actions on this occasion.


    Among others, Leader of opposition Odisha Legislative Assembly Shri Pradeep Nayak, Deputy leader of opposition, Odisha Legislative Assembly Bishnu Charan Sethi, Chief whip of opposition, Odisha Legislative Assembly Shri Mohan Chandra Majhi, Member of Parliament, Bhubaneswar Lok Sabha Smt. Aparajita Sarangi, Member of Parliament Shri Ashwini Vaishnaw, Director, Ministry of I &B, Government of India Shri Akhil Kumar Mishra were present.


    Shri Akhil Mishra gave the welcome address while Deputy Director, PIB, Bhubaneswar Shri Sitanath Mishra gave the vote of thanks.


    ***********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584558) Visitor Counter : 76
    Click Here for Related Photos