      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Dr. N. Seshagiri Memorial Lecture by Shri. Narayana Murthy
      
      National Informatics Centre pays Tribute to Founder Director General Dr. N. Seshagiri

      Posted On: 03 AUG 2019 8:59PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Narayana Murthy, Founder - Infosys Limited, will deliver Dr. N. Seshagiri Memorial Lecture in the august presence of Minister for Law & Justice, Communications and Electronics & Information Technology Sh. Ravi Shankar Prasad, Minister of State for HRD, Communications and Electronics & Information Technology, Shri Sanjay Dhotre and Secretary, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology Shri Ajay Sawhney in New Delhi on Monday afternoon, 5 th August.


    Dr. N. Seshagiri, Founder Director General of National Informatics Centre and former Special Secretary to Government of India, a Visionary, an IT Technocrat ahead of times, a crusader of innovations, was born on 10 th May 1940. An engineering graduate from University College of Engineering in Bangalore in 1961, with a Ph.D from IISc Bangalore in 1964, he started his career with Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai in 1966.


    Dr. Seshagiri aspired to bring in IT revolution at the grass-root level for the benefit of the common mass. He worked tirelessly to fulfill the mission to introduce Computer and Networks at all levels in the government, which lead to the origin of first nationwide computer communication network – NICNET.


    Dr. Seshagiri was a man with immense intellectual potential and high technical quotient. He was instrumental in drafting various policies including hardware, software and National IT policy that revolutionized Information Technology (IT) and transformed India into a global software power. He also set up the Software Technology Parks in India.


    The outcome of his efforts during the decades of 80s and 90s, led to setting up of the DISNIC Programme in the country to usher in the ICT revolution in 520+districts.


    Dr. Seshagiri’s optimism and enthusiasm inspired NIC to work for the origin of many technological benchmarks which included the Government’s first Data centre, first e-mail service for effective Govt. communication, VSAT network. The Public Private Partnership or PPP Model, synonymous with many e-Governance projects today in the country, was his brainchild.


    Recognizing his immense contribution towards the growth of IT sector in India and its applications in governance, Dr. Seshagiri was conferred with Padma Bhushan in the year 2005, Vikram Sarabhai Award, Asiad Jyoti Award, Karnataka Rajya-Utsav Jyoti Award, Dataquest Lifetime Achievement Award to name just a few.


    To pay tribute to the visionary, NIC is organizing the Dr. N. Seshagiri Memorial Lecture-2019 on 5th August 2019 at 3 PM in Plenary Hall of Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi.


    Various dignitaries from both the Centre and State Governments will grace the occasion.


    Simple and candid in nature, Dr. Seshagiri strongly believed that India could be the best in technology. NIC would continue to strive to take forward the legacy of this visionary & creator to emerge as a ‘prime builder’ of e-Governance applications up to the grassroots level as well as a promoter of digital opportunities for sustainable development .


    **********


    KSP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581247) Visitor Counter : 658
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi