      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi to inaugurate Jaipur “Hunar Haat”, on 25th August, 2019
      Posted On: 23 AUG 2019 5:21PM by PIB Delhi


    The next “Hunar Haat”, which has proved to be a credible brand of handmade indigenous products of master artisans and craftsmen, will be organised from tomorrow 24 th August in Jaipur. This will be the first “Hunar Haat” of the Government. Earlier, lakhs of artisans and craftsmen have been provided employment and employment opportunities through more than a dozen “Hunar Haat” in last 3 years.


    Rajasthan Chief Minister Shri Ashok Gehlot along with Union Minority Affairs Minister Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi will formally inaugurate this “Hunar Haat”, being organised by Union Minority Affairs Ministry, on 25 th August at Jawahar Kala Kendra in Jaipur. Jaipur MP Shri Ram Charan Bohra, MLAs from Jaipur, senior officials of Union Minority Affairs Ministry and Rajasthan Government and other dignitaries will grace the occasion.


    More than 200 master artisans and culinary experts including a large number of women artisans from every corner of the country will participate in this “Hunar Haat”.


    Shri Naqvi today said that “Hunar Haat” has proved to be an effective programme to provide employment and employment opportunities to master artisans. More than 2 lakh 40 thousand master artisans, craftsmen and culinary experts have been provided employment and employment opportunities in the last 3 years.


    Shri Naqvi said that “Hunar Haat” has proved to be a “credible brand” of “Indigenous Talent” of Indian artisans and craftsmen. “Hunar Haat” has ensured “Development with Dignity” of artisans and craftsmen of the country.


    Shri Naqvi said that “Hunar Haat”, being organised across the country by the Minority Affairs Ministry, has proved to be “Empowerment & Employment Exchange” for master artisans and craftsmen. “Hunar Haat” has become a “credible brand” to fulfil Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s commitment to “Make in India”, “Stand up India”, “Start up India”.


    In this “Hunar Haat” at Jaipur, the artisans will be bringing indigenous handmade exquisite pieces like Cane & Bamboo, Jute Products from Assam, Variety of Silks from Jharkhand, Bhagalpuri Silk & Linen, Lac and traditional Jewellery, Kantha of West Bengal, Varanasi Silk, Lucknawi Chikankari, Ceramic, Terracotta, Glassware, Leather, Marble products of Uttar Pradesh, Traditional handicrafts from North Eastern Region, Ajrakh, Bandhej, Mud work, Copper Bells from Gujarat, Kalamkari & Mangalgiri from Andhra Pradesh, Patiala famed Phulkari and Jutti, Carpets and Durries, Batik, Bagh, Chanderi, Maheshwari from Madhya Pradesh, Handicrafts and Handlooms of Rajasthan and many more.


    The visitors coming here will also enjoy traditional delicacies like Awadhi Khana, Rajasthani Pakwan, Gujarati Thali, Maharashtrian Cuisine, Madhya Pradesh ka Khana, Chatpati Chaat, Delhi Street Food, Tamil Cuisine, mouth-watering sweets along with Mukhwas & variety of flavoured paan. Silver Filigree products from Odisha & Parsi Food will be an added attraction.


    Besides, traditional cultural programmes, Qawalli and others, to be performed by renowned artists such as Mirza Sisters, Nizami Brothers, Ehsaan Bharti, Prem Bhatia will be the major attraction for visitors.


    Earlier, “Hunar Haat” had been organised at Allahabad, Pragati Maidan and Baba Kharak Singh Marg at New Delhi; Puducherry and Mumbai. In the coming days, “Hunar Haat” will be organised at other different states of the country.


    ***


    RCJ/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582762) Visitor Counter : 1227
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi