      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Rajya Mantri Shri Shripad Naik visits Bangalore Unit of Navratna Defence PSU, Bharat Electronics Limited
      Posted On: 22 AUG 2019 5:55PM by PIB Delhi


      Raksha Rajya Mantri Shri Shripad Naik visited the Bangalore Unit of Navratna Defence PSU, Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) on August 21, 2019. He inspected the works being undertaken at some of the facilities of the Unit.


      Shri Shripad Naik visited the Super Components Manufacturing Facility which develops critical high technology electronic components and products. BEL indigenously designs and manufactures microwave modules / products which were earlier imported from countries like USA, UK and France.


      Raksha Rajya Mantri was also shown the Solar Power Manufacturing Facility which is a world-class mono crystalline solar cell and solar panel manufacturing facility. BEL proposes to expand its manufacturing facility to 200 MW in the coming years.


      Shri Shripad Naik visited the Military Radar outdoor facility where Schilka Upgrade (Gun & Fire Control System) and Weapon Locating Radar were shown to the Raksha Rajya Mantri. He also reviewed the progress at the Near Field Antenna Test Range, which is a measurement facility for calibrating and measuring the performance of any type of antenna.


      The real time operation of Naval Systems – Coastal Surveillance System was also shown to the Raksha Rajya Mantri. The vast coastline of India is installed with Coastal Surveillance System supplied by BEL to the Coast Guard. Chain of Static Sensors installed over the coastline of India are networked to present common operating picture at the command and control centres.


      Earlier, Shri Shripad Naik was given an overview on the working of BEL by Director (Bangalore Complex) Shri Vinay Kumar Katyal. He explained the performance of the Unit, its manufacturing facilities, major products, CSR initiatives and steps taken towards sustainable / green energy.


      Raksha Rajya Mantri expressed happiness with the performance of BEL-Bangalore and asked them to continue the good work.


      Chairman & Managing Director of BEL Shri M. V. Gowtama, other Directors of BEL and CMDs of HAL, BEML & MIDHANI were also present.


      ABB/Nampi/Savvy/MTJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582648) Visitor Counter : 490
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi