      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Shri Dharmendra Pradhan to visit UAE from 10-12 November 2019
      Posted On: 10 NOV 2019 1:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Steel Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, accompanied by an official and business delegation, will be visiting UAE from 10-12 November 2019. He has been invited by the UAE Minister of State and CEO, ADNOC Dr. Sultan Ahmad Al Jaber, to participate in the Inaugural Ministerial Session of Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition & Conference (ADIPEC) on 11th November 2019 and also in a Ministerial Panel Discussion on the same day.


    The Minister, together with UAE Minister of State and CEO, ADNOC Dr. Sultan Ahmad Al Jaber, will be jointly inaugurating the India Pavilions set up by Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry (FIPI), Directorate General of Hydrocarbons (DGH), and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). The DGH will be conducting a Roadshow to attract foreign investment by global oil and gas majors in India’s Exploration & Production (E&P) and other areas in oil & gas sector.


    During his visit, Shri Pradhan is scheduled to meet his UAE counterparts H.E. Suhail Mohamed Faraj Al Mazrouei, Minister of Energy and Industry, and H.E. Dr. Sultan Ahmad Al Jaber, Minister of State and ADNOC Group CEO and discuss issues of bilateral hydrocarbon as well as steel sector engagement within the overall framework of India-UAE Strategic Partnership.


    On the sidelines of ADIPEC, Shri Pradhan will also meet his counterparts from various countries and Heads of international energy organizations and CEOs of global oil & gas companies, who are attending the ADIPEC- 2019. He will also use the occasion to explore opportunities for steel exports to the Middle East countries.


    Held under the patronage of H.H.Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the UAE and hosted by the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC), ADIPEC will take place from 10 to 14 November 2019, at the Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre (ADNEC). ADIPEC has become one of the most influential global conference in the oil and gas sector, attracting 1,45,000 attendees, including Government Ministers, global industry CEOs, policy makers and leading energy companies.


    *****


    YB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1591172) Visitor Counter : 525
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi