      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      6th Day Celebration of National Tribal Festival “Aadi Mahotsav” at Dilli Haat, INA
      Posted On: 21 NOV 2019 8:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Smt. Hema Malini, Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) was the Chief Guest in the on going Aadi Mahotsav at Dilli Haat, INA this evening. Ustad Shahid Parvez Khan, the iconic Sitar maestro gave maesmerizing performance along with Sh. MIthilesh Jha, renouned Tabla player in the evening today. Smt. Hema Malini felicitated both Shri Ustad Shahid Parvez Khan and renowned Tabla Player Shri Mithilesh Jha. Various other dignitaries were present during the cultural evening. MD, TRIFED Shri Pravir Krishna felicitated Smt. Hema Malini and Ustad Shahid Parvez Khan and thank them for the presence and encouraging the tribal artisans. “Aadi Mahotsav” is a National Tribal Festival is being organised by M/o Tribal Affairs and TRIFED to celebrate and cherish the spirit of tribal Culture, Cuisine & Commerce.


    

    In her address Smt. Hema Malini appreciated the efforts of Ministry of Tribal Affairs and TRIBES India/TRIFED in providing such marketing platform to tribal community across the country to showcase and sale of Handloom, Handicraft and Natural organic food products developed/grown by them . She also visited some of the stalls and appreciated the craft items from the different states and also made various purchases.


    The Mahotsav comprises of display and sale of tribal art and craft, tribal medicine & healers, tribal cuisine and tribal folk performances, in which around 1000 tribal artisans, chefs, folk dancers/musicians from 24 States of the country are participating, providing a glimpse of their rich traditional culture. The theme of the Mahotsav is: “A Celebration of the Spirit of Tribal Culture, Craft, Cuisine and Commerce”. The festival features exhibition-cum-sale of tribal handicrafts, art, paintings, fabric, jewellery and much more through 220 stalls. The Mahotsav also offers variety of special tribal cuisines made by tribal chefs of different States and a cultural evening everyday from 6.30 P.M. to 8.30 P.M.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/SJ&E-21/11/2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592995) Visitor Counter : 112
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi