      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Brahmaputra Board Needs to Be Strengthened Minimising All Weaknesses: ShriArjun Ram Meghwal Union Minister Of State For Water Resources On Three Day Visit To Guwahati And Imphal
      Posted On: 04 JUL 2018 3:39PM by PIB Guwahati


    Converting all threats into opportunities and minimising all weaknesses,the Brahmaputra Board needs to be strengthened, said ShriArjun Ram Meghwal, Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, while interacting with the officials of Brahmaputra Board today in Guwahati.


    After reviewing the activities and works undertaken by the Board, the Minister discussed about various issues related to the organisation with its officials. He said that the Board should accept its weaknesses if there is any and always try to minimise it. Any threat comes on its way needs to be converted into opportunities.


    While talking about Government’s initiatives Shri Meghwal said that the River Brahmaputra depicts the culture of India. So, any organisation related to it should get importance and focus. He also mentioned that Flood control is Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi’s one of the major priority areas.Water management is the priority of the North East as well as the Central Government. This should be taken as an opportunity to work for the development.


    Earlier, through a power point presentation the Minister was informed about the main activities undertakenby the Board through various schemes, functions of the Board and also the constraints facing by it. The Minister was informed about the acute shortage of manpower due to retirement of large numbers of personnel in different cadres and about prolong vacancies. The Union Minister assured the officials about restructuring the Brahmaputra Board and also to fill up the vacant posts very soon.


    Shri T.S. Mehra, Commissioner (B&B), Ministry of Water Resources, RD and GR, ShriShri Rajeev yadav, Chairman of Brahmaputra Board and other officials were present in the meeting.


    After the interaction the Minister went on a site visit to Central water Commission and Inland Waterways Authority of India at Pandu Port, Guwahati. The Minister also to visitImphal today to take part in various programmes in that region.


    KSD/BM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537803) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese