      Ministry of Finance

      Income Tax Department Celebrates Income Tax Day Today 28% Growth in Tax Collection in North East Region
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2018 5:35PM by PIB Guwahati


    Northeast region has witnessed 28 per cent growth in tax collections till 30th june, 2018 over the corresponding period of financial year 2017-18, which is second highest in the country after Delhi. During the current financial year, the department in NER has also collected Rs. 1,564 crores out of budget target of Rs. 8,357 crores, said Shri L C Joshi Ranee, Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, NER during the celebration of 158th Income Tax Day at Guwahati today. Shri Joshi said that the Net Collection in the region during the financial year 2017-18 has risen to Rs. 7,097 crores. India has collected more than Rs. 10 Lakh crore as tax in the last fiscal year, and this year the target is Rs. 11 Lakh 50 Thousand Crore, he added.


    Revenue is the backbone of administration and taxpayers help in the progress of the country by paying tax. For the development of the country resources are required and Income Tax is providing it. Income Tax Department is fulfilling its target year by year, Shri Joshi said. It is every individual’s duty to contribute for the development of the country. If anyone is paying tax it comes back to him, as the money is used by the government for the welfare of the people of the country, he added. He also requested every individual to use the benefits of the service of online applications like Aaykar Setu which helps taxpayers to get any information and services needed.


    In today’s programme as part of the celebration the Office of the Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, NER, Guwahati felicitated top three tax payers in the category of Non-Corporate, Corporate(both PSUs and Non-PSUs) of North Eastern Region for the financial year 2016-17. Under the category of PSUs Numaligarh Refinary Limited, Oil India Limited and North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Limited(NEEPCO) were felicitated as the top three tax payers respectively. In the Non PSU sector Greenply Industries Limited, Lafarge Umium Mining Private Limited and Star Cement Meghalaya Limited were felicitated as top three tax payers.


    Shri Shishir Jha, Commissioner, Shri Sanjay Bahadur, Principal Director (Investigation) and Shrimati G. G. Kamei, Commissioner of Income Tax Department and Shri Kuldeep Singh Dhatwalia, Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and other officials of Income Tax Department were also present in today’s programme.


    Earlier, Shri L.C. Joshi Ranee, Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, NER hoisted the Income Tax Flag at Aayakar Bhawan, Guwahati.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539913) Visitor Counter : 154
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese