      AYUSH

      Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik unveils statue of Dhanvantari in Guwahati
      Posted On: 28 JUL 2018 4:41PM by PIB Guwahati


    The Union Minister of AYUSH Shri Shripad Naik unveiled the Statue of Dhanvantari in the Government Ayurveda College in Guwahati today. The Minister also took part in the laying of the foundation stone of a canteen cum guesthouse and a Girls Hostel in the college. Shri Pijush Hazarika, the Minister of State, Health and Family Welfare, Government of Assam was also present in the programme.


    The Union Minister said in his speech, “I am happy to be here which is one of the oldest Ayurveda colleges in the history of serving the mankind for the last seven decades. Today, I remember the spirit and the temperament of the regional leaders of Assam in establishing and giving share to this, especially late Dr. Bhuvneshwar Baruah and late Dr. Jagdish Chandra Bhattacharya”.


    “The Government of India has given priority to the traditional knowledge of all the states in the country, especially in the Northeast Region. Assam itself is very rich in traditional medicines for thousands of years. Assam and its adjacent regions are also rich in flora and fauna and it has scope to rejuvenate the science of AYUSH in general and Ayurveda in particular. In the present context of health scenario, the scientific spirt is the need of the hour,” Shri Naik said.


    The Minister further added, “The Government Ayurveda College, Guwahati has been catering to the needs of Assam and the North East by producing dedicated Ayurvedic practitioners. I urge the faculty here to strengthen the research facilities as it will enhance the scope of Ayurveda treatments.”


    The programme started with the unveiling of the Dhanvantari Statue amidst Vedic chants. In his welcome address, Dr. Bhabesh Das, Principal of the college, remarked, “We believe Dhanvantari is the God of Ayurveda. I am very happy that the Ministry of AYUSH has helped immensely in strengthening the future of Ayurveda in the North East Region.”


    Shri Pijush Hazarika in his speech, said, “I am feeling extremely happy and privileged to be part of this event. The Assam Government has given Rs. 10 crores to strengthen the infrastructure of this college. We will try our best to ensure that we take all possible measures to help build this institution. The initiative of installing a Dhanvantari statue in every Ayurveda college in the country is a noble initiative taken up by the Ministry of AYUSH and we are happy to be a part of this.”


    Shri Roshan Jaggi, Joint Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, in his speech said that with the inception of the Dhanvantari idol now, the Government Ayurveda College will proceed towards excellency and eminency. Shri Mukul Gogoi, Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department, Government of Assam, also pointed out that the vision is to install the Dhanvantari statue in every Ayurveda college across the country and already 11 statues have been installed in various Ayurveda colleges till now.


    Other dignitaries like Shri Sunil Deodhar, founder of the NGO “My Home India”, Dr. Anil Kumar Sharma, senior Proffessor of the Government Ayurvedic College, Guwahati, Shashank Sandu and Umesh Sandu, President of the Sandu Pharmaceuticals Limited, Mumbai were also present in the event.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540618) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese