      PIB Headquarters

      AMD NEW DIRECTOR SRI M. B. VERMA
      Posted On: 01 MAY 2018 6:29PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Shri M.B. Verma, Scientific Officer H” has taken over as Director, Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research (AMD), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) today, the 1 st of May, 2018, in place of Shri L.K. Nanda, who has retired on completion of 36 years of Government Service. Prior to assuming Office of Director, AMD, Shri M.B. Velma was Additional Director in the same organization.


    Shri Verma, after obtaining Masters and M.Phil degrees in Geology from Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, joined AMD in 1982.He has vast experience in exploration of atomic minerals in different geological domains of Southern, Eastern, Western, Northern and South Central parts of India spanning over 36 years. His skillful exploration strategy resulted in large scale augmentation of uranium resources in Tummalapalle and Koppunuru in Andhra Pradesh; Peddagattu and Chitrial in parts of Telangana. His pioneering work in Singhbhum Shear Zone in Jharkhand resulted in proving number of uranium deposits like Mohuldih and Bandhuhurang in Jharkhand State and they are being exploited for commercial mining by Uranium Corporation of India Limited (UCIL). Besides, Shri Verma has the credit of proving the economic significance of Umra-Udaisagar in Aravalli Fold belt and Siwana Ring Complex in Rajasthan, Dharmapuri Shear Zone in Tamil nadu and Ambadongar Carbonatite Complex in Gujarat for Uranium and Rare Metal and Rare Earths (RMRE).


    Shri Verma is instrumental in propagating developmental benefits and peaceful uses of nuclear energy for energy security, food, water and health through public outreach programmes conducted in many parts of India. Shri Verma is a recipient of National Geoscience Award instituted by Ministry of Mines, Government of India for his commendable work in Chitrial, Nalgonda District, Telangana.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530880) Visitor Counter : 179
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu