      Ministry of Education

      Only research can bring in innovations-Shri Prakash Javadekar
      Posted On: 06 JAN 2019 8:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Human Resource Development, Shri Prakash Javadekar has said that only the research work in various fields can pave way for innovations in the country. Addressing a valedictory session of the 8th Women Science Congress during the ongoing the 106th Indian Science Congress at the Lovely Professional University Jalandhar, he said that research and development are the most important prerequisites for the nation building. He said that it is the research only which helps countries to overcome problems of any type in any field and that’s why the research work is being strengthened and given top priority by the union government.


    Shri Prakash Javadekar said that the union government has chalked out a programme to strengthen research and development in India. Talking about the slogan of “Jai Anusandhan” given by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in the inaugural session of the 106th Indian Science Congress, he said, “This shows the commitment of the Centre towards the research and innovations. The NDA government had carved out a fund of Rs 200 Crore this year for the innovative solutions and 1000 colleges across the country are being equipped with innovation hubs.” He also called upon the Universities and other educational institutions to set up such innovation clubs on their own level, too.


    Shri Prakash Javadekar also mentioned the problems faced by the country and gave clarion call to the women to come forward and join science stream to resolve social and economic problems. He said union government had set up a fund under Higher Education Financing Agency (HEFA) to provide assistance to the research laboratories. This year ministry is spending nearly Rs 33,000 Crore for this purpose while to encourage social science research Rs 250 Crore has been earmarked. He said the major project of the government is SPARK which was launched to assist and encourage students to carry on their ambitious research projects within India instead of going abroad. In this regard the ministry has also planned to provide scholarship of Rs 1 Lakh per student per month for research and innovation work. He said the government is bringing together the students, teachers and industrialists in innovation and research work. The initiatives taken by the government had not only stopped brain drain but replaced it with brain gain. He said inculcation of scientific temper of the mind to understand the things in proper perspective is essential.


    Shri Prakash Javadekar said country cannot make progress unless the science laboratories and research work are strengthened. With this motive the government has established six research parks in different IIT’s of country where students and teachers are doing their research work. He said there is a good scope of teaching and learning science and it is the science only which can make India the world leader.


    *****


    PS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558809) Visitor Counter : 723
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu