      Ministry of Culture

      President Ram Nath Kovind Inaugurates three day Gandhian Resurgence Summit at Parmarth Niketan camp at Prayagraj Kumbh
      
      Nearly 2.25 crore devotees take holy dip during two days Makar Sankranti bathing festival
      
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2019 6:40PM by PIB Delhi


    President Ram Nath Kovind Inaugurated the three day Gandhian Resurgence Summit at Parmarth Niketan camp at the ongoing Prayagraj Kumbh today. About 300 Gandhians from different parts of the country and organisations are participating in the Summit.


    Speaking at the event, the President said that Kumbh is the biggest congregation of humanity of the world and this provides for a great platform to spread the messages of Cleanliness and eradication of untouchability as was practised by Mahatma Gandhi. He said that this would be true homage to the Father of the Nation. He appreciated the Uttar Pradesh State government and its officials for making Kumbh a great success. Earlier, First Lady Ms Savita Kovind honoured 9 women from traditional boat community for their contribution to the Kumbh.


    The Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister, Shri Yogi Adityanath said that about 2 crore 25 lakhs devotees have taken holy dip during the two days Makar Sankranti bathing festival. Addressing the three day Gandhian Resurgence Summit at Parmarth Niketan, he congratulated the Mela officials for their efforts and arrangements for the first Shahi Snan. He said elaborate security arrangements have been made for the Mela with cleanliness and sanitation being top priority during the Mela. He said above one lakhs toilets have been constructed in the Mela area to ensure open Defecation free Mela area.


    For the first time, an Integrated Control and Command Centre (ICCC) has been set up to ensure full proof security in and around Mela area. More than one thousand CCTV cameras have been installed in the Mela for the purpose.


    Prayagraj Kumbh 2019 will be remembered for opening of doors to Akshaya Vat (sacred tree) and Saraswati Koop (sacred well) for common men after 450 years. It was a long pending demand of the devotees.


    *****


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560393) Visitor Counter : 608