      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Tamil Nadu is one of few states which provide well developed infrastructure for industries, Union Minister Suresh Prabhu
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2018 6:25PM by PIB Chennai


    Tamil Nadu is one of few states which provide well developed infrastructure for industries, said Shri. Suresh Prabhu, Union Minister for Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation. He was addressing after inaugurating the ACMEE 2018, the 13 th International Machine Tools Exhibition held at Chennai Trade Centre today. He hailed former Chief Minister Shri. Kamarajar for his foresight about the industrial corridor and planned Ambattur Industrial Estate in 1963 itself.


    At present, fourth industrial revolution is taking place in which the information technology is getting infused with the industry, thus changing it in to smart industry and smart technology, he added.


    When Industries are investing in India, they are investing in States like TN, so the State partnership with Centre gains importance when it comes to Industrial policy. While an industry is being set-up, it’s not just that industry or allied industry, but the whole community around the industry will develop which will give more employment opportunities.


    While an industry is investing in a State, it invests in a district. So developing the district infrastructure and easing the administration process in district is also important. For this Union government is proposing two schemes; one is ease of doing business in district level and the other is increasing the GDP of the district by 3 percent more than the normal GDP. Regarding this, Union Government is now working on the model project and once it is succeeded it will be implemented in every district in the country.


    He thanked Prime Minister for providing various schemes for small scale industries. Government has also created a e-portal where the SMEs can sell their products. For making the industry successful, penetrating the international market is inevitable. For this, first time in India, Union government is working with the industries closely to promote the export of the products produced in India.


    He said that we will achieve the dream of India and that could be possible only with the economic development for which the involvement of the private sector is vital. He called upon all the industries to work with the government for the progress of the country and urged the AIEMA to take lead.


    Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister Shri. O. Paneerselvam, Tamil Nadu Rural Industries Minister Shri. P. Benjamin, Tamil Nadu Industries Minister Shri. M.C. Sampath and other dignitaries also took part in the occassion


    *****


    VG/MSV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536212) Visitor Counter : 148
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil