      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways celebrates “Swachhta- Hi- Sewa Abhiyaan” on the commencement of Swachhta Hi Sewa Pakhwada
      
      Shri Piyush Goyal launches Swachhta-Hi-Sewa Pakhwada at Old Delhi Railway Station & participates in Shramdan

      Posted On: 15 SEP 2018 6:38PM by PIB Delhi

    Ministry of Railways celebrates ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa Abhiyaan’ today, on the first day of Swachhta Pakhwada across its entire network including all Zones, Divisions, Production Units & Workshops and Railway PSUs from 15th September to 2 nd October 2018 to commemorate the 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the father of the Nation.


    The Pakhwada commenced with the administration of Swachhta pledge to all Railway personnel across its entire network including all Zones, Divisions, Production Units & Workshops and Railways PSUs. Thereafter, Railway Personnel watched the live telecast of Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s interaction with the Swachagrahis. The Hon’ble Prime Minister also interacted with the Railway employees at Rewari workshop through video conferencing and appreciated the efforts made by Railway personnel towards cleanliness.


    On this occasion, Minister of Railways & Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal launched Swachhta- Hi- Sewa Pakhwada at Old Delhi Railway Station by administering the Swachhta pledge to the Railway officials, staff and others present on the occasion. He also participated in Shramdan at the venue . Speaking on the occasion, Shri Goyal said, “It is well known that Mahatma Gandhi always treated Cleanliness as a service to the Nation & as worship to God, indeed he considered Cleanliness more important than God’s worship. The Minister further added that If our country has clean environment, then it would bring about change in people’s life because half of the diseases occur due to untidy environment. If each countrymen takes this pledge of Cleanliness as a responsibility to make the country clean, then our nation would get recognition across the world.” Later, the Minister also visited Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station & New Delhi Railway Station and participated in the Swachhta Hi Sewa Program organised there.


    Chairman, Railway Board, Shri Ashwani Lohani administered Swachhta Pledge to Railway officials & staff at Railway Board & later participated in Shramdan at Railway Board & Baroda House.


    ***


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546240) Visitor Counter : 478