      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Inauguration of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra and launch of other initiatives at Kalahandi, Odisha by Shri Dharmendra Pradhan and Sri Sri Ravi Shankar
      Posted On: 27 SEP 2018 7:42PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas & Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri Dharmendra Pradhan along with spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar today inaugurated Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra at Dharmagarh, Kalahandi, Odisha. This centre will deliver skills development courses in five job roles like organic grower, plumber, sewing machine operator, home health aide and electrician domestic solutions. It aims to train 1000 candidates annually


    Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra is Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship’s initiative towards creation of standardized infrastructure for delivery of skill training which are equipped to run industry-driven courses of high quality with focus on employability and create an aspirational value for skill development training.


    An MoU was signed between National Skill Development Corporation and Sri Sri Rural Development Program Trust. Under the partnership, skill centres will be set up in 16 jails across 7 states (Assam, J&K, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Haryana and Manipur) for skill training of inmates. The training is under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana scheme.


    An MoU was also exchanged between Beauty and Wellness Sector Skill Council and Sri Sri Rural Development Program Trust for executing Recognition of Prior Learning Certification on Yoga for 20,000 Art of Living volunteers and Yuvacharyas


    Odisha Kaushal Gram term sheet was also exchanged under which Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) in 6 job roles for 20,000 people will be carried out in Odisha. This project under RPL will certify 20,000 unrecognized skilled workers from villages and create model skill villages called Kaushal Grams in Odisha


    Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, speaking at the event said that as the demand for skilled labour is growing, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship is making continuous efforts to skill and upskill the workforce. The Government is working with a vision to take full advantage of our demographic dividend and establish India as the ‘Skill Capital of the World’. He said that the objective behind Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras is to empower the youth by providing market relevant skill training and develop entrepreneurship. Efforts are being made to set up Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras in all the districts of India. He thanked Gurudev Sri Sri ji for collaborating with Skill India.


    The Minister said that the Government has initiated the establishment of a Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra in every district of the country, ensuring last mile delivery of skill development. More than 490 centres have already been established and work is going on to establish the rest.


      Sri Sri Ravi Shankar speaking at the occasion said that everyone needs to come together and align energies to pursue the higher agenda of development. Service to the country is service to God. He stated that Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana is laudable initiative by Central Government to ensure skill development of our youth.


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547760) Visitor Counter : 685
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu