      Ministry of Education

      Dr. Jagannath Patil, Adviser, NAAC presented Scroll of Honour
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2017 5:27PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Press Information Bureau


    Government of India


    Bengaluru


    ***


    Dr. Jagannath Patil, Adviser, NAAC presented Scroll of Honour


    Dr. Jagannath Patil has been awarded a special recognition as Scroll of Honour for contribution to Higher Education Quality Assurance at National & International level on the occasion of 37 th Conference of Maharashtra State Federation of College Principals on 10 th July 2017 at Nagpur, Maharashtra.


    Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey ji , Hon’ble Minister of State for Human Resource Development, Higher Education (MHRD) presented this special honour to Dr. Jagannath Patil in presence of Dr. B.B. Taywade, President of Maharashtra State Federation of College Principals’ Association of Non-Government Colleges and Dr. Subhash Brahmbhatt, President, Association of Indian College Principals (AICP).


    The Scroll of Honour mentions that “This honour is bestowed in recognition of relentless efforts and supreme commitment towards enhancement of Quality in Higher Education of not only in Indian Higher Education Institutions but also at the global level through various initiatives and programmes undertaken and completed successfully by Dr. Jagannath Patil”.


    Dr. Jagannath Patil’s contribution to Quality Enhancement of Academic Institutions of Higher Learning is reflected in his active participation in Asia Pacific Quality Network (APQN-The Largest regional network of Quality Assessment from over 50 countries) of which he went on to become the first Indian President. He was also elected as President of Global Quality Network INQAAHE in 2015-16, being the first Asian expert to lead this global organization. He is the founder chairperson of Asia Pacific Quality Register (APQR).


    During his tenure of work he has visited more 40 countries as resource person for Quality related seminars, conferences and events. He was moderator of APARNET, and online community of UNESCO, Bangkok. He has received international recognition for contribution to Quality Assurance in Asia Pacific in form of plaque of Honour awarded by ONESQA, Thailand receive at the hands Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand. He also contributed immensely in bringing to NAAC prestigious APQN quality award 2017 for International Co-operation in QA at Moscow, Russia.


    Dr. Virander. S. Chauhan, Chairman, Executive Committee, NAAC and Prof. D. P. Singh, Director, NAAC Congratulated to Dr. Jagannath Patil on this prestigious honour.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497100) Visitor Counter : 133