      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Sustainability of Farmer Producer Organizations is need of the hour
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2017 4:24PM by PIB Bengaluru


    PRESS INFORMATION BUREAU


    GOVERNMENT OF INDIA


    BENGALURU


    ***


    Sustainability of Farmer Producer Organizations is need of the hour


    Bengaluru, July 25, 2017


    Speaking at the inaugural session of the seminar “National Consultation on Farmer Producers Organizations: Status and Prospects”, Dr.Maheswara Rao, Secretary, Agriculture, Horticulture and Sericulture, Government of Karnataka stressed the need of sustainability of Farmer Producer Organizations and to have its linkage to the market. The 2-day seminar has been organized by the National Institute of Animal Nutrition and Physiology (NIANP), Bengaluru in association with NABARD to have detailed discussions involving Self Help Groups, Farmer Interest Groups, Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs). The Secretary in his presidential remarks felt the requirement of the funds to support FPOs to retain their professional talent. He appealed to FPOs to generate public private partnership and also ensure to have contract with suppliers to get the best price for farmers. By increasing the market value FPOs can be promoted, he added.


    Dr.A.P.Fernandez, Secretary, MYRADA, in his key-note address shared his experiences and expertise recalling the champions of the previous revolutions particularly Shri Tribhuvan Dal Patel in the white revolution.


    Participating on the occasion, Dr.P.M.Ghole, Chief General Manager, NABARD, Mumbai spoke about three areas capacity building, credit availability and marketing for the benefit of farmers. Dr.T.N.Prakash Kammaradi, Chairman, KAPC spoke about the need of reorientation in agriculture in general and research and development in particular.


    Earlier, Dr.S.Ayyappan, NABARD Chair Professor has given introduction of the theme while Dr.Raghavendra Bhatta, Director, NIANP proposed vote of thanks.


    *****


    SP:kv 14-30 Hrs. 25-07-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497068) Visitor Counter : 40