      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Two-day Global Law Conference on "Environmental Law: Challenges and Solutions" inaugurated at Chandigarh University Campus, Gharuan in Mohali (SAS Nagar) District of Punjab today.
      India will lead the world in the field of Poverty Alleviation, Counter-Terrorism and Climate Justice in the 21st century: Union Minister of Railways, Commerce and Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal
      
      Chandigarh, 16 November 2019
      Posted On: 16 NOV 2019 7:31PM by PIB Chandigarh


    The Union Minister of Railways, Commerce and Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal said that India will lead the world in the field of Poverty Alleviation, Counter-Terrorism and Climate Justice in the 21st century. He was addressing the inaugural session of two-day Global Law Conference on "Environmental Law: Challenges and Solutions" today at Chandigarh University Campus, Gharuan in Mohali (SAS Nagar) District of Punjab. He was the chief guest on this occasion.


    He said there is a dire need to keep balance between environment and development process based on the needs of the society always keeping the environment concern


    in mind. He said it is in Indian tradition and heritage to respect and revere the nature. He highlighted that even Kautilya's Arthashastra has mention of environment protection while Ashoka's fifth rock edict too stresses on the same issue. He said that entire railway network in India will be electrified in phased manner making it environment friendly. The Government of India is fully committed to environment protection from day one, the Minister said. Talking about E-Vehicle, he said it provides a unique opportunity to India and can help in saving billions of foreign exchanges.


    Highlighting the achievements of the Government, Shri Piyush Goyal said after 2014 within five years more than 90 percent of households have cooking gas connections and sanitation coverage has reached more than 90 percent.


    In his Presidential address, Justice Deepak Gupta, Judge Supreme Court of India stressed that missionary zeal is necessary to address environmental issues and a healthy environment ensures good economy.


    In his welcome address, Justice Swatanter Kumar (Retd.), Chairman of the Advisory Board of University said the purposes of the conference are to bring to the fore the challenges and solutions related to the environment and creating environmental consciousness in public especially in the youth. He also lauded the efforts of the Chandigarh University in making environment as a compulsory subject across all the disciplines. Stressing upon the environmental laws, he said that India has enough laws for environmental protection but the issues is with the implementation.


    UNEP Director, Ms. Mrema Elizabeth interacted with the participants through tele-conference and lauded the efforts of the supreme court of India interpreting fundamental rights in relation to the environment.


    The Vice-Chancellor of Chandigarh University, Prof. (Dr.) R S Bawa presented Vote of Thanks. Mr. Rt. Lord Carnwath, Judge Supreme Court of UK, Mr. Luc Lavrysan, Judge in Belgian Constitutional Court were among other dignitaries and participants present during the inaugural session of the Global Law Conference.


    PS/HR


    

    
    (Release ID: 1591847) Visitor Counter : 4