      PIB Headquarters

      Philatelic Exhibition on Women and Women Empowerment
      Posted On: 14 MAR 2018 2:52PM by PIB Chennai


    Anna Road HPO complex, Chennai is conduction Philatelic Exhibition on the theme “Women and Women Empowerment” for the month of March 2018.


    A permanent Philatelic Exhibition was inaugurated at the historic heritage building where first electric theatre was housed at Anna Road HPO complex, Chennai, on 15th August, 2017. Four Exhibitions on the themes - Indian National Movement and Independent India,Postal Communication, Children’s Specialand Music, were held so far. The Exhibition has received overwhelming response with more than 1768 students from 27 schools visiting it, besides members of public.


    The next theme for the month of March 2018 is Women and Women Empowerment. A wide variety of stamps issued by various countries on Women themes viz., education, health and nutrition, welfare, etc., will be on display. This Exhibition is expected to receive overwhelming response from Women folk.


    The primary purpose of this Exhibition is to create awareness and interest among children for pursuing Philately as a hobby. Short films related to Philately are also screened for the school children at the Exhibition. The Exhibition is open on all working days from 10 am to 6 pm. All the latest stamps issued by the Department are on sale at the venue. A set of colourful stamps on the theme Ramayana and Mahabarathaare also available for sale. Customers can also get their photograph printed instantly on the customised My Stamp for just Rs. 300/-. Customers can open a Philatelic Deposit Account at the Philatelic Bureau, with a minimum amount of Rs 200/- and get all the latest stamps and other materials issued by the Department at their doorstep, free of cost.


    In addition to the Exhibition, Philately Workshops were conducted at more than 100 schools so far,in Chennai City and the children are made aware of the advantages of Philately and also explained about collection of stamps and as to how to organize them for exhibitions as exhibits.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1524284) Visitor Counter : 51
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil