      PIB Headquarters

      We are more efficient than private sector-Uday Bhaskar, CMD-BDL
      MIDHANI played an important role in equipping the country to be self-reliant- Dr. Dinesh Kumar Likhi, CMD, MIDHANI
      
      Posted On: 22 JUN 2018 6:44PM by PIB Hyderabad


    MIDHANI is a mine of strategic materials and is providing strategic materials to all the prominent Sectors in the country said Shri V. Uday Bhaskar, Chairman & Managing Director, Bharat Dynamics Limited while addressing the Customer Meet: 2018 was organized by MIDHANI with a theme ‘45 Years of Glorious Partnership’ in Hyderabad today.


    He recollected MIDHANI’s contribution with pride, particularly in Missile Sector from wire guided Anti Tank Guided Missiles (ATGM) era to contemporary Long Range Surface to Air Missile (LRSAM) in association with DRDO and BDL. Dwelling upon the Changing security environment and technological needs, he expressed his full confidence in MIDHANI’s potential to meet all challenges and provide best metallurgical solutions as per Nation’s requirement. He appreciated the efforts of Dr. Dinesh Kumar Likhi, CMD, MIDHANI for bringing up the various organizations and PSUs to come together and work together to face the threat from private sectors.


    There’s a long felt need to provide remote access to monitor progress of orders and interact with manufacturing unit customers across the country, in this regard a “Customer Service Portal” was launched by the chief guest shri V. Uday Bhaskar .


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Dinesh Kumar Likhi, Chairman and Managing Director, MIDHANI emphasized MIDHANI’s insuperable commitments towards customers and development of new materials. He informed the participants about modernization programme along with the ground breaking ceremony for the mega project of Wide Plate Mill, new upcoming projects (Tungsten, Spring, Close Die) as well as Armouring Unit at IMT, Rohtak. MIDHANI’s strategic shift from our traditional ‘Make to Stock’ to a more aggressive "Make for Anticipated Order" was appreciated by customers with big applause.


    Midhani has played an important role in equipping the country to be self-reliant with its contributions in fields such as research, development, manufacture and supply of critical alloys and products of national security and strategic importance. “Right now there is no domestic manufacturing of Nickel-Titanium Shape Memory Alloys for commercial applications in India, thus making us completely dependent on imports,” said Dinesh Kumar Likhi, Chairman and Managing Director of MIDHANI.


    Guest of Honour Shri Sailendra Nath, GM/Field Gun Factory (Kanpur), Shri Dinesh Shrivastav, CEO/Nuclear Fuel Complex (Hyderabad) and Shri A.K. Negi, Inspector General/Sashastra Seema Bal (New Delhi) appreciated MIDHANI’s vital support towards their projects and commitments.


    Dignitaries attending the event complimented the contributions of all MIDHANIANs for their efforts towards indigenisation, producing Equipments for the National Security and successful conduct of Customer Meet. Renowned Scientists, Senior Officials and Engineers from the strategic sectors and other Defence/Police Organizations attended the Meet.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536333) Visitor Counter : 106
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu