      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog organizes a meeting on API Industry
      Posted On: 19 FEB 2020 8:56PM by PIB Delhi


    A meeting to turbo-charge the ‘API Industry’ was organized today in NITI Aayog under the chairmanship of CEO Shri Amitabh Kant. Secretaries from the Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP); Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change; Department of Health Research; and senior officers from the Department of Expenditure, Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals, NITI Aayog, Department of Pharmaceuticals and CDSCO attended the meeting. Captains of the pharma industry, including Dr Kiran Majumdar Shah (Biocon), Dr Pankaj Patel (Zydus), Dr Satish Reddy (Dr Reddy Laboratories), and senior officers of Sun Pharma, Aurobindo, Jubliant Life Sciences, Cipla, Mylan, Alembic, Themis also attended the meeting. Presidents Bulk Drug Manufacturers Association, Indian Drug Manufacturers Association and Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance were also present.


    The Department of Pharmaceuticals made a detailed presentation on the history and status of the API industry and the challenges faced by it and the various options available to make India a powerhouse in Key Starting Materials, Intermediates and Active Pharmaceuticals Ingredients (API).


    DoP shared its vision and recent efforts in promoting bulk drug parks in the country. Issues related to environmental clearances were discussed in detail and industry was promised fast approvals.


    Principal Secretary (Industry), Government of Telangana, explained various incentives offered by the Government of Telangana and invited the industry to set up manufacturing units in Hyderabad Pharma City.


    Leaders of the pharma industry shared their perspective on the situation and suggested various measures to be taken by the government.


    Shri Amitabh Kant exhorted the industry to become internationally competitive and go for a global scale of operations. He assured that Government of India will take all necessary steps to support the industry in its endeavours.


    *****


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603775) Visitor Counter : 748
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi