      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      ‘Har Kaam Desh Ke Naam’: Corporates joins Ganga Rejuvenation effort in a big way
      
      Tripartite MoU signed between NMCG, Uttarakhand Govt & Indorama Trust for development of Ghats at Gangotri and Badrinath
      
      Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat appeals Corporates to join Namami Ganga Mission

      Posted On: 24 FEB 2020 7:16PM by PIB Delhi

    A tripartite Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed here today between the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), State Program Management Group-Uttarakhand (SPMG-UK) and Indorama Charitable Trust (ICT) to work together for renovation/ development of the Ghat at Badrinath and Ghats and Crematoria at Gangotri in Uttarakhandat a total cost of 26.64 Crore.


    The MoUwas signed in the presence of Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Minister of Jal Shakti; Shri UP Singh, Secretary, Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation;Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Director General,NMCG, Shri Rozy Agarwal, Executive Director (Finance) and other seniorsofficers of the Ministry and NMCG.


    The MoUwas signed by Shri Ashok Kumar Singh, Executive Director, NMCG; Shri Rajeev Kshetrapal, Director, Indorama Industries, Delhi and Trust Member of Indorama Charitable Trust and ShriUday Raj Singh, Project Director, SPMG, Govt. ofUttarakhand.


    Rivers in India have always been considered sacred and the Ganga river in particular, is the identity and lifeline of India. Pilgrim sites and urban centers have developed along the river. These centers have drawn sustenance from the river and have been thriving over time. Ghats and Crematoria are part of the lifestyle of people and pilgrimages to visit the holy river Ganga play a vital role in strengthening the People-River Connect. Gangotri and Badrinath being part of the Char DhamYatra, are especially important. This MoU is a significant step for improving amenities and sanitation at these holy locations with the underlying spirit of partnership and of private corporates taking responsibility by contributing to the National Mission: Rejuvenation of the sacred river Ganga.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Shekhawat, Minister of Jal Shakti, saidthis project is being taken up under the Government initiative of ‘HarKaamDeshKeNaam’. He said the Clean Ganga campaign has been taken up in Mission Mode since the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi led Government assumed office in 2014. Though the Mission is nearing 100% completion, the Namami Ganga Mission is an unending process. The Minister lauded the Indorama Group for financing the project and hoped this will inspire other entrepreneurs as part of their companies’ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Shri Shekhawat said for the first time the novel Operation and Maintenance Clause has been inserted, which will take care of the project’s upkeep over a period of time. Clean Ganga Mission can succeed only when it becomes a people’s initiative, he added.


    The detailed Project Report (DPR) has been developed by M/S WAPCOS, a Govt. of India Enterprise.


    The activities under the project include:

      * Construction of Bathing Ghats and Crematoria
      * Repair and modernization of existing Ghats and Crematoria
      * Providing public amenities on Ghats
      * Bank erosion protection works
      * Operation & Maintenance (O&M) for 5 years

    Work is expected to start by March 2020 and likely to be completed in 15 months. This MoU is effective for duration of 7 years.


    PROJECT DETAILS


    Badrinath Bathing Ghat


    Badrinath Bathing Ghat is situated along the bank of river Alaknanda. Through local consultation, the sites of Ghat was identified. The total area to be developed at Badrinath Bathing Ghat is 2099 m 2 . The total cost of the project will be Rs. 10.31 crore. Operation and Maintenance for the ghat will be for five years. Development of BadrinathGhat includes the various components like Changing Room, Toilet with bio-digester and reed bed, water spout, chhatri, platform, signages, horticulture work, railing etc. Construction of the ghat will be completed in 15 months.


    Gangotri Bathing Ghat and Crematoria


    GangotriGhat is situated along the bank of river Bhagirathi at Gangotri. One bathing ghat and one crematoria to be developed at Gangotri. The total area to be developed at GangotriGhat is 2170 m 2 . The total cost of the project will be Rs. 16.02 crore. Development of ghat includes the various components like Changing Room, Toilet with bio-digester and reed bed, IWC, water spout, chhatri, platform, signages, horticulture work, railing, solar light pole etc. Construction of the ghat will be completed in 15 months.


    Benefits:

      * Rejuvenated Ghats, along the river, would improve the people -river connect and would also become places that reflect local culture and history.
      * Project will significantly improve the visual aesthetics of the area. For Ganga Rejuvenation, improvement in aesthetics is also an important aspect.
      * River water quality improvement through reduction in disposal of untreated sewage, solid waste disposal, etc.
      * Increase in Tourism which will create opportunities for local employment.
      * Prevent the disposal of un-burnt / partially burnt bodies in the river and reduce the pollution due to cremation process (IWC save 200 kg of wood per cremation and 1 tree per 3 cremations).

    PROJECT DESIGNS


    Gangotri Bathing Ghat site


    

    Gangotri Bathing Ghat Design View


    Badrinath Bathing Ghat site


    Badrinath Bathing Ghat Design View


    *******


    APS/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604242) Visitor Counter : 909
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali
    
    
    

*