      Ministry of Education

      Chemistry Teacher from Mumbai receives National Award for effective teaching, academic rigour and good student performance
      
      Primary School Teacher from Ahmednagar honoured for creating a model primary school, using art-integrated learning and community mobilization
      
      The award is an inspiration to give more: Sangeeta Sohni, Chemistry teacher, Atomic Energy Central School, Mumbai
      
      “An honour for all teachers who are devoted to spreading education in rural areas”: Narayan Chandrakant Mangalaram, Primary School Teacher, Ahmednagar
      Posted On: 05 SEP 2020 12:03PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai / New Delhi, September 5, 2020


    The President of India, Shri Ramnath Kovind presented the National Awards to Teachers for the year 2020 on the occasion of Teachers’ Day via video conferencing today. Forty-seven teachers from various states, who through their commitment and industry have enriched the lives of their students, have been awarded the prestigious honour. Ms. Sangeeta Sohni from Mumbai and Mr. Narayan Chandrakant Mangalaram from Ahmednagar have also been awarded for their unique contribution towards the field of education.


    Ms. Sangeeta Sohni, teacher at the Atomic Energy Central School, Anushaktinagar, Mumbai has received the award for her inspirational work, according to the citation by the National Jury. The citation says: “Ms Sohni has made noteworthy contributions to the effective teaching of Chemistry by introducing tools and methodologies to enable students to understand its diverse concepts in an accessible and easy manner. She has adopted the use of fun-filled practical exercises, applicative uses and ICT tools for the purpose. At the same time, she has also brought in academic rigour that has motivated her students to achieve very good academic results in higher secondary”.


    Ms. Sohni, who has been overwhelmed with gratitude on hearing the news of her selection, has said: “My responsibility towards my organization and my students has increased after receiving the award. It is an inspiration to give more to the students. The award is also going to be an encouragement for younger teachers that hard work will always pay”.


    According to the National Jury citation, Mr. Narayan Chandrakant Mangalaram, teacher at Zhilla Parishad Primary School, Rahuri, Ahmednagar, Maharashtra has received the award because he is an extremely progressive educator and has created a model primary school. “In a rural school, where children of nomadic tribes come to study, he has effectively implemented art integrated learning and other innovative pedagogies which has helped retention and increased daily attendance. Mr. Mangalaram has also been able to mobilize the community and bring in a donation that has led to better infrastructure in the school.”


    Thanking the Government and the Jury for the recognition, Mr. Mangalaram says: “The award is an honour for all teachers who are devoted to spreading education in rural areas despite various difficulties. The award will further increase my dedication to strengthen the next generation of the country.”


    The awards were finalised by an independent national level jury constituted by the Department of School Education & Literacy, Ministry of Education. The award presentation ceremony can be watched below.


    ***


    CP


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1651516) Visitor Counter : 152
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi