      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      National Education Policy 2020 is a revolutionary reform for the 21st Century – Prakash Javadekar
      
      Government confident of doubling the Gross Enrolment Ratio in higher education
      
      Focus on early child hood education is the most important feature of NEP
      Posted On: 05 SEP 2020 2:17PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai | Pune: 5 th September 2020


    Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar has termed the National Education Policy 2020 as a revolutionary reform of the 21 st Century. Delivering the key-note address at the Centenary Year Teachers’ Day Celebration of the Parle Tilak Vidyalay Association of Mumbai through video link, he said early childhood education, enquiry-based education, teacher training, foundational and numeric literacy, have all been laid emphasis on. The Minister said NEP 2020 will empower our youth, which will take the nation forward in the 21 st century. “The policy is such that it will make the teaching – learning experience enjoyable for both students and teachers” he added.


    Shri Javadekar expressed confidence that India would double the Gross Enrolment Ratio within the next 10 years from the current level of about 25%. He said students across the country have become aspirational and economic growth has pushed parental earnestness to provide good education for their children. Wider geographical spread of higher education institutions, especially covering rural areas and increased demand would be the critical factors that will improve GER in India, he added.


    The Minister began his address by invoking Lokmanya Tilak’s views on education as means of creating awareness, He said the new policy lays emphasis on foundational and numerical literacy and institutes like National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) would give access to education to all. The Minister underlined the importance of Early Childhood Education as the main characteristic of NEP. He said, 3 -8 years of Age Group is to build Cognitive skills, curiosity and mental capacity. He also said that the education with subject understanding is important rather than rote learning.


    While activity based learning is emphasized at the early states, 9th to 12th educatìon would focus on detailed, relevant and new knowledge, which will induce scientific temper among children. Shri Javadekar said research and innovation are key to enabling our education mould globally competitive citizens. He said 3,000 ‘Atal Tinkering Labs’ are running successfully to encourage research based innovation, which is essential for building an Aatmanirbhar Bharat.


    Speaking about the role of teachers in the society, the Minister said “ a teacher does not simply teach through books or black boards. Ideal teacher is the one who instills values in students through his/her conduct”. Four year integrated B.Ed degree is being introduced to provide holistic training programme for teachers, which will include practical teaching skills. It will encourage teachers to become teachers by choice and not as a last resort, he added.


    Shri Javadekar said, the National Education Policy has been formulated after extensive consultations. Recalling his days as the HRD Minister, he said 13-14 subject experts had worked with great sincerity and zeal under the leadership of Dr. K Kasturirangan.


    About Parle Tilak Vidyalay Association


    Parle Tilak Vidyalaya Association is an educational organization operating mainly in Mumbai suburbs. On June 9, 2020, the organization entered its centenary year. Inspired by the great personality of Lokmanya Tilak, some patriotic citizens of Vile Parle founded the Parle Tilak Vidyalaya Association (PTVA). The first Marathi school, Parle Tilak Vidyalaya, was started on June 9, 1921. There were only 4 students in the school initially. Today, the institute has 5 schools, 3 colleges and a Management Institute, with a total enrollment of over 20,000 students. Among the alumni of Parle Tilak Vidyalay Association are veterans like Maharashtra's beloved writer Pu. La. Deshpande, Shetkari Sanghatana founder Sharad Joshi, former Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Pradip Naik (R) . The institution has also produced many politicians, social activists, entrepreneurs and actors.


    ( PIB Mum-MD/ RT / DW/PM)


    RT/DW/PK


    *


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1651542) Visitor Counter : 529
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Malayalam , Bengali , Urdu , Marathi , Manipuri , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada