      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Mission 'Skill India' in Maharashtra
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2020 7:36PM by PIB Mumbai


    Union Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Shri R. K. Singh today informed about the details of the works done so far in the districts of Maharashtra under “Skill India“ scheme during the last three years.


    Under Skill India Mission, the Ministry is implementing Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) to impart Short Term Training (STT) and Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) on pan-India basis including all districts of Maharashtra.


    The scheme has two components:


    1) Centrally Sponsored Centrally Managed (CSCM)


    2) Centrally Sponsored State Managed (CSSM)


    Under CSCM there is no provision to allocate resources state-wise. However, under Centrally Sponsored State Managed (CSSM) component Rs. 85.77 Crore has been released to Maharashtra during FY 2017-18. However, till date, no utilization certificate has been submitted by Government of Maharashtra to the Ministry.


    Further, Union Minister said that, till 17th March 2020, 1.82 lakh and 1.26 lakh candidates have been trained and certified, respectively, under Short Term Training (STT) courses in Maharashtra. Out of these certified candidates, 0.52 lakh candidates have been provided with placement. Also, 7.7 lakh candidates have been oriented under Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) component of the scheme in Maharashtra.


    Besides this, the Ministry promotes establishment of model and aspirational skill centres known as Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra (PMKK) in every district for imparting skill training throughout the country. As on date, 50 PMKKs have been allocated in 36 districts of Maharashtra covering all districts. Out of allocated PMKKs, 43 PMKKs have been established. Loan amount of Rs. 17.85 Cr. has been disbursed so far for establishment of PMKKs in Maharashtra.


    This information was by the Union Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in awritten reply in the Loksabha today.


    R.Tidke/S.Tupe/P.Kor

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654185) Visitor Counter : 84