      PIB Headquarters

      Marine experts warn of fast warming of Indian Ocean
      Posted On: 08 NOV 2018 5:48PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


        Marine experts have expressed their concern on fast warming of Indian Ocean thanks to global warming which, according to them, may pose a severe threat to species extinction. Speaking at the opening session of a Winter School on climate change in marine fisheries being organised by the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) on Thursday here, they said that climate change is affecting Indian fisheries through changes in stock productivity and its distribution.


        While inaugurating the 21-day winter school, which will provide a platform for an academic-oriented discussion on a wide array of topics on the effects of climate change in marine fisheries, Dr A Ramachandran, Vice Chancellor of Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS) said climate change is causing floods and drought across the globe. According to him, increased water temperature and higher carbon dioxide concentration make ocean more acidic. Dr Ramachandran warned that there would be a drop in productivity in future due to a gradual damage occurred to the ecosystem and biodiversity owing to climate change. He also said that strong commitments of the stakeholders and coordinated efforts are required to stimulate growth of the country’s blue economy in a more sustainable way.


        Indian Ocean warming faster than Atlantic


        Dr A Gopalakrishnan, Director of CMFRI said that Indian ocean is warming (0.11°C per decade) faster than the Atlantic (0.07°C per decade) and the Pacific (0.05°C per decade), and the sea surface temperature in Indian Ocean will increase by 0.60 o C by 2050.


        “However, Indian marine fish harvesting is eco-friendlier compared to the global scenario. Our marine fisheries is emitting 17.5% less carbon footprints comparted to the global averages when it comes to fishing materials involved in fishery”, he said.


        “The CMFRI has catalogued resource-wise information and the institute is in the process of predicting fish biomass changes in our oceans in future. CMFRI has also prepared adaptation strategies to climate change with action plan. Research on estimating primary productivity of Indian exclusive economic zone (EEZ) for assessing the carrying capacity in Indian waters with respect to climate change is also underway”, Dr Gopalakrishnan said.


        Dr PU Zacharia, Course Director of the winter School and Head of the Demersal Fisheires division of CMFRI said the country experienced 24 extreme climatic events around the Indian coasts resulting in loss of life and property. “Estimates of climate change impacts are essential to devise climate change policies and suggest adaptation and mitigation measures”, he added.


        The Winter School is aimed at equipping scientists, researchers and other stakeholders with the tools and requisite knowledge to assess and adapt to the changes being occurred due to climatic variations. As many as 25 researchers and teachers are participating the in the programme.


        Dr T V Sathianandan and P Kaladharan also spoke on the occasion.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552122) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam