      Ministry of Communications

      C-DOT celebrates its 34th Foundation Day
      Posted On: 30 AUG 2017 2:35PM by PIB Guwahati


    The Minister of Communications Shri Manoj Sinha has called upon C-DOT, Centre for Development of Telematics (C-DOT) to innovate and develop Telecom products at reasonable costs for exporting to SAARC countries and other developing regions of the world. In a message on the occasion for 34th Foundation Day celebrations of C-DOT, he said that the premier Telecom R&D center of the Government of India, can develop products having far reaching impact in the areas of Agriculture, Education and Health care. The Minister said that in an era of M2M communications, Internet of Things, 5G, Cognitive learning and hyper speed networks, C-DOT has to play an important role in developing state of the art telecom infrastructure at affordable rate for the common man. Referring to the launch of C-DOT’s latest innovation, “WiDHWAN”, Shri Sinha said that, it has been exclusively designed to cater to the recurring call drop issues in no-signal and low-signal network scenarios in places such as offices and homes. He also congratulated C-DOT for regularly organizing lecture series on its foundation day, attracting national and international talents from the fields of IT and Engineering to brain storm on the future challenges facing the sector.


    In her address, Secretary, Department of Telecom,MsAruna Sundararajan said that in view of the current government’s huge thrust on accelerating digitization as the only way forward for India, C-DOT can emerge as a leading digital infrastructure provider as it has both deep capabilities and enormous talents to achieve the same. She said that at present 70 to 80 percent of telecom equipment is imported in India and C-DOT can play an important role in bringing down this huge import bill by developing cutting edge telecom products in the country through schemes like Design in India, Make in India or Digital India. Lauding the role of the premier Telecom R&D center, the Secretary said that after the rural telephony exchange, the country is witnessing the largest ever roll out of C-DOT powered G-PON for broadband connectivity in the rural areas with local R&D and local products.


    In his address, Executive Director, C-DOT Shri VipinTyagi said that in the coming years there will be a new paradigm of communications and his organization has to rise to the new challenges. He said that this year too, in continuation of its tradition, C-DOT is holding a technical workshop and GB Meemamsi Lecture Series, wherein several field experts, Telecom veterans and academicians from around the world will share their intriguing experiences and discuss innovative ways to address the numerous issues and challenges faced by the users in the fast-changing communications scenario.


    The two-days’ workshop and lecture series on “Secure and Intelligent Computing for M2M/IoT(Machine to Machine/ Internet of Things)Devices ”will be attended by senior officials from Government, R&D, Industry, Academia and the students. The list of distinguished speakers delivering their enriching keynotes on diversely relevant topics includes Prof. V. Ramgopal Rao, Director, IIT Delhi, Dr. David Garrett, Expert in DSP & VLSI Design, USA and Dr. Samir Mittal, Expert in AI, Cognitive Solutions & Machine (Deep) Learning,USA.


    The participants of the conference will deliberate upon the contemporary subjects ranging from the “Emergence of Smart Antennas in WLAN Technology” to “Cognitive Computing Architectures for Machine Learning in M2M/IoT scenario” and the need for bridging academic R&D with product innovation.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501112) Visitor Counter : 2