      Ministry of Defence

      New and Innovative Measures by the Ministry of Defence
      Posted On: 02 MAR 2020 3:53PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Defence has taken several new and innovative measures to improve work culture, bring more transparency and accountability and also enhance result orientation which are as under:-

      * Measures for promoting Probity, Public Accountability and Transparency in defence capital procurements: Execution of Pre Contract Integrity Pact (PCIP) for all cases above Rs. 20 crore is being done to ensure integrity in procurement process. Guidelines for Handling of Complaints provide for time bound disposal of complaints and are aligned to CVC/DoP&T guidelines. Instructions have been issued for ascertaining vigilance status of L-1 vendor before seeking approval of the Competent Financial Authority. Guidelines for Penalties in Business Dealings with Entities and Capacity Assessment for Shipbuilding Entities have been notified.
      * Measures undertaken by Services to improve work culture, transparency: The Organizations follow a fair and transparent policy in distribution of work, posting, grant of leave, honours and award etc. through constant monitoring of cases on weekly and monthly basis and ensuring timelines and accountability. IT resources are being exploited to the optimum to ensure monitoring of work flow, pendency of cases and achievement of results. Online tests for selection of personnel through examination web portal have been started which increased IAF’s testing capability by 8 to 10 times and facilitated candidates to appear for exams in their nearby locations. IAF has successfully implemented Project e-MMS (e-Maintenance Management System) which is a versatile maintenance management tool. Non-classified communications have been moved towards paperless office using software developed by IAF. An Automation Cell have been set up by IAF to digitize, automate and reengineer various operational, maintenance and administrative tasks of IAF with an aim to bring transparency and accountability. IHQ MoD (Navy) has also commenced centralized online recruitment of Naval Civilians to lead a fair and transparent recruitment process.

    In addition to the above measures, installation of biometric attendance system; implementation of IT to monitor workflow, pendency of cases and achievements of results; Performance Management System (PMS) to improve individual performance; online recruitment portal have been undertaken.


    This information was given by Raksha Rajya Mantri Shri Shripad Naik in a written reply to Dr. Vinay P. Sahasrabuddhe in Rajya Sabha today.


    ABB/SS/Nampi/KA/DK/Savvy/ADA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604835) Visitor Counter : 585
    
    
    
    
    

*