      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi inaugurates “Hunar Haat”, at Harmu Ground, Ranchi (Jharkhand) being organised by Union Minority Affairs Ministry
      
      Government working to provide international markets to India’s magnificent indigenous handmade art/crafts: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi
      
      “Hunar Haat” - an effective mission ensuring common people becoming a part of mainstream economic development: Arjun Munda

      Posted On: 01 MAR 2020 4:57PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said in Ranchi (Jharkhand) that the Modi Government has been working to provide international markets to India’s magnificent indigenous handmade art/crafts.


    Union Minister for Tribal Affairs Shri Arjun Munda and Shri Naqvi were inaugurating “Hunar Haat” at Harmu Ground, Harmu Chowk in Ranchi (Jharkhand). This “Hunar Haat” is being organised by Union Minority Affairs Ministry from 29th February to 08th March, 2020. This is for the first time that “Hunar Haat” is being organised in Jharkhand. This is the 21st “Hunar Haat” of the Union Minority Affairs Ministry.


    Shri Arjun Munda said that the Tribal Affairs Ministry and Minority Affairs Ministry are working in coordination to provide international market, opportunities and recognition to India’s traditional art/crafts. “Hunar Haat” is an effective mission which has been ensuring that the common people become a part of mainstream economic development.


    Shri Arjun Munda said that “Hunar Haat” has been providing market and opportunity to India’s indigenous legacy of handmade art/crafts. “Hunar Haat” has proved to be magnificent platform to understand India’s rich cultural heritage under one roof.


    Shri Naqvi said that while on one hand, “Hunar Haat” has ensured “Kaushal Ko Kaam”, on the other hand it has given international recognition to legacy of Indian art/crafts.


    Shri Naqvi said that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s visit to “Hunar Haat” at India Gate Lawns, Rajpath, New Delhi, organised from 13 to 23 February 2020, has given tremendous boost and encouragement to artisans, craftsmen especially women artisans from across the country.


    On 23rd February, in “Mann Ki Baat”, Prime Minister appreciated “Hunar Haat” and artisans, craftsmen and their exquisite indigenous handmade products. By mentioning about “Hunar Haat” in “Mann Ki Baat”, the Prime Minister has reiterated our Government’s commitment to promote and encourage the magnificent legacy of our indigenous arts/crafts.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s one-hour long visit at “Hunar Haat” gave a tremendous encouragement and publicity to “Hunar Haat” as the number of visitors increased by more than 60 per cent after Shri Modi Ji’s visit. More than 17 lakh visitors, both domestic and international, visited “Hunar Haat” at India Gate Lawns, Rajpath. The visitors encouraged the artisans, craftsmen and also enjoyed traditional delicacies of various states at “Bawarchikhana” section at “Hunar Haat”.


    Shri Naqvi said that 125 stalls have been set up at “Hunar Haat” in Ranchi where more than 250 artisans and craftsmen including women artisans from across the country are participating. Artisans have brought with them rare exquisite handmade indigenous products from every corner of the country. Visitors will also enjoy traditional delicacies of various states and cultural programmes, to be held daily.


    The Minority Affairs Minister said that more than 3 lakh artisans, craftsmen, culinary experts and people associated with them including a large number of women artisans have been provided employment and employment opportunities through “Hunar Haat” in the last 3 years.


    He said that Union Minority Affairs Ministry has started process to register these artisans and their indigenous products on “GeM” (Government e Marketplace). Several export promotion councils have shown interest to provide international markets at large scale for handmade indigenous products of these artisans and craftsmen. Indian Packaging Institute has been providing training to artisans to improve their methods of packaging and to make it more attractive.


    The next “Hunar Haat” will be organized in Chandigarh from 13th to 22nd March, 2020. In the coming days, “Hunar Haat” will be organized in Gurugram, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata, Dehradun, Patna, Bhopal, Nagpur, Raipur, Puducherry, Amritsar, Jammu, Shimla, Goa, Kochi, Guwahati, Bhubneshwar, Ajmer and other places. So far, “Hunar Haat” have been organized at various places in the country such as Delhi, Mumbai, Prayagraj, Lucknow, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Puducherry and Indore.


    On the occasion, women artisans, who have come to “Hunar Haat” in Ranchi from across the country, were felicitated. Uttar Pradesh Minister Shri Suresh Khanna; Member of Parliament from Ranchi Shri Sanjay Seth; former Jharkhand Govt. Minister & MLA from Ranchi, Shri C P Singh and other dignitaries were also present.


    ***


    KGS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1604788) Visitor Counter : 686
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali