      Ministry of Tourism

      Union Tourism Minister Shri Prahlad Singh Patel launches multilingual Incredible India website in New Delhi
      
      Chinese, Arabic and Spanish versions of website will attract tourists from these regions : Shri Prahlad Singh Patel

      Posted On: 02 MAR 2020 8:46PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State (IC) for Tourism & Culture, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel launched the multilingual Incredible India website in New Delhi today. The website is currently hosted in English and Hindi is now launched in Chinese, Arabic and Spanish to attract tourists from these regions. On this occasion secretary, Ministry of Tourism Shri Yogendra Tripathi, Director Genral, Ministry of Tourism Smt. Meenakshi Sharma, senior officials of the ministry, foreign delegates and stakeholders of tourism industry were also present.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Prahlad Singh Patel said that the Incredible India website and mobile app, a digital initiative launched by the Ministry of Tourism, aims to showcase India as a popular tourist destination worldwide. Shri Patel said that our objective is to showcase various tourism products of India on a global platform and increase tourism awareness, attractions and opportunities by providing tourists with personalised and contextual digital experiences.


    Shri Prahlad Singh said that today Incredible India website and mobile app is being launched in Chinese, Arabic and Spanish languages with the main objective of effectively connecting with visitors in countries where these languages are predominant, through web and social media platforms; and thus establish better contact with them.


    He said that every year many tourists come to India from countries using these three languages. Many people from India also visit these countries for tourism and other purposes. He added that this exchange of tourists plays an essential role in making us understand and appreciate each other's culture. In 2019, India witnessed the arrival of more than 10.9 million foreign tourists, of which about 6 lakh people speak Chinese, about 2 lakh speak Arabic, and about 1 lakh 25 thousand speak Spanish.


    Shri Patel said that immersive experience-based content is provisioned on the website through 360 degree-experience-based walk-throughs and stories and experiences related to Food & Cuisine, Heritage, Nature and Wildlife, Luxury, Spiritual, Adventure, Art, Shopping and much more.


    Shri Patel said that Ministry of Tourism’s Incredible India 2.0 website aims towards showcasing the varied tourism products of India at a global arena by providing visitors with relevant, personalized and contextual digital experience escalating tourism awareness, attraction and opportunities.


    The website now comprises of a plethora of information around 165 destinations, 2700+ pages, 28 States + 9 UTs along with multiple attractions. The website which is currently hosted in English and Hindi is now launched in Chinese, Arabic and Spanish with primary objective to effectively engage the visitors across web and social media platforms thereby providing an exciting experience to the travellers visiting the website from countries from where we witness major tourist footfall.


    The website will be dynamic and constantly evolving with new design and theme, periodically. Going forward, the website will be available in other major international languages.


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604921) Visitor Counter : 400
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi