      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      Climate Change and Water Contamination
      Posted On: 02 MAR 2020 5:41PM by PIB Delhi


    Climate model simulation studies done by various agencies including Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) project possible linkages of climate change with frequency and intensity of weather related events. However, any direct link between climate change and flooding resulting in water contamination has not been established.


    The flow in rivers is dynamic and depends on many parameters such as rainfall, its distribution and intensity in the catchment, catchment characteristics and withdrawals/utilisations of water basins. Central Water Commission (CWC), Ministry of Jal Shakti monitors important/major rivers. Considering annual average flow of last 20 years of terminal sites of major rivers, no appreciable increasing/decreasing trend in total water availability in the country including the State of Bihar has been observed.


    Ministry of Jal Shakti has drafted bills namely National Water Framework Bill, River Basin Management (RBM) Bill and Model Bill to ‘Regulate and Control the Development and Management of Ground Water’ for bringing reforms in water sector.


    The draft RBM Bill proposes optimum development of inter-State rivers by facilitating inter-State coordination ensuring scientific planning of land and water resources taking basin/sub-basin as unit with unified perspectives of water in all its forms (including soil moisture, ground and surface water). The draft RBM Bill has been circulated to all States/Union Territories, concerned Central Government’s Ministries/Departments for pre-legislative consultations.


    The National Water Framework Bill provides an overarching national legal framework based on principles for protection, conservation, regulation and management of water as a vital and stressed natural resource, under which legislation and executive action on water can take place at all levels of governance. The draft National Water Framework Bill has been circulated to States/UTs and the concerned Central Ministries for obtaining their views/comments.


    Ministry has also circulated a Model Bill to ‘Regulate and Control the Development and Management of Ground Water’ to all the States/UTs to enable them to enact suitable ground water legislation for regulation for its development which includes provision of rain water harvesting. So far, 15 States/UTs have adopted and implemented the ground water legislation on the lines of Model Bill.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti & Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Rattan Lal Kataria in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    APS/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604872) Visitor Counter : 938