      Ministry of Shipping

      ‘Chintan Baithak’ - Ports Review Meeting with Chairpersons of All Major Ports of India Concludes
      
      While Striving to Match International Standards, Indian Ports Should be ‘Smart, Sustainable and Safe’: Shri Mansukh Mandaviya

      Posted On: 01 MAR 2020 1:28PM by PIB Delhi

    Minister of State for Shipping (I/C), Shri Mansukh Mandaviya chaired three day Ports Review Meeting - ‘Chintan Baithak’ in Mamallapuram, Tamilnadu which concluded today. Chairpersons of all Major Ports of India, senior officials of the Ministry of Shipping, and other officials of Major Ports attended the meeting.


    In ‘Chintan Baithak’, detailed contemplation on various matters for improving the performance of the Major Ports, strengthening Major Ports to directly compete with private or non-major ports,port modernisation,implementing e-governance to make ports faceless and paperless, developing India as ‘trans-shipment hub’ and Vision-2030 for Maritime Sector was done.


    On the second day of Chintan Baithak , Vice President of India Shri M Vankaiah Naidu interacted and motivated the officials. He said that India needs to develop ports at par with other global ports. A world-class infrastructure at ports is important for India to march from USD 2.5 trillion economy to USD 5 trillion.Shri Naidu remarked that Coastal community development is an essential component of port-led development. There is a need to take care of local communities by providing skills to local youth so that they grab employment opportunities.


    During the Chintan Baithak, Shri Mansukh Mandaviya actively interacted with the Chairpersons, Officials and gave a vision of ‘Smart, Sustainable and Safe Ports of India’. Chairpersons of all Major Ports presented their respective Ports Performance with innovative measures , significant achievements , overall financial condition, future planning for the development of Ports. During the Ports Review Meeting, Chairpersons also apprised the Minister of Shipping about the issues in which Ministry level interventions are required. S hri Mandaviya solved various challenges faced by the ports in the meetings and assured all necessary support for the development of Ports. Shri Mandaviya encouraged Ports to implement the best practices followed worldwide in the Maritime Sector.


    *****


    YKB/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604781) Visitor Counter : 976
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi