      Ministry of Culture

      The Ministry of Culture is running a Scheme of Scholarship and Fellowship to Promote Art and Culture in the country – Culture Minister
      Posted On: 02 MAR 2020 4:47PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Culture is implementing a Scheme namely, ‘Scheme of Scholarship and Fellowship for Promotion of Art and Culture’, which consists of three components viz (i) ‘Award of Scholarships to Young Artists in Different Cultural Fields’, (ii) ‘Award of Senior/Junior Fellowships to Outstanding Persons in the Fields of Culture’ and (iii) ‘Tagore National Fellowship for Cultural Research. The details in respect of aforesaid three components are at


    Details of three components of the Scheme of Scholarship and Fellowship for Promotion of Art and Culture

     1. Component I : Award of Scholarships to Young Artistes in Different Cultural Fields:

    Under this scheme component,up to 400 scholarships (in a Batch Year) are awarded to persons of outstanding promise in the age group of 18-25 years. An amount of Rs. 5,000/- p.m. is given for 2 years for advanced training within India.


     1. Component II: Award of Senior/Junior Fellowships to Outstanding Persons in The Fields of Culture:


    Under this scheme component,up to 400 Senior/Junior Fellowships (in a Batch Year) are awarded to outstanding persons in the age group above 40 years (Sr.) and 25 to 40 years (Jr.) respectively. An amount of 20,000/-p.m. and Rs. 10,000/- p.m. is given to Senior/Junior Fellows respectively for 2 years for cultural research.


     1. Component III: Tagore National Fellowship for Cultural Research:


    Under this scheme component,up to 25 Scholarships and 15 Fellowships (in a Batch Year) are awarded to outstanding personsin order to invigorate and revitalise the various institutions under the Ministry of Culture (MoC) and other identified cultural institutions in the country, by encouraging scholars/ academicians to affiliate themselves with these institutions to work on projects of mutual interest. An honorarium of Rs. 80,000/- p.m. plus contingencies and Rs. 50,000/-p.m.plus contingencies is given to Fellows and Scholars respectively for 2 years.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/c) of Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OMJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604860) Visitor Counter : 642
    
    
    
    
    

1.