      Ministry of Education

      Several Steps have been taken by the Ministry of Human Resource Development to develop courses and curricula for Apprenticeship/Internship embedded degree/diploma programmes-HRD Minister
      Posted On: 02 MAR 2020 6:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) is working along with Sector Skill Councils (SSCs) under National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) to develop courses and curricula for Apprenticeship/Internship embedded degree/diplomaprogrammes with core focus on development of knowledge, skills, aptitude and on-job training with Industry exposure. These steps are being taken to enhance job orientation and employability of graduates/undergraduates students.


    SSCs are working with Autonomous Universities/Institutions and State Governments for introducing the Apprenticeship/Internship embedded degree/ diploma programmes. MHRD is working along with the SSCs to mobilize the Higher Educational Institutions to adopt the courses which are being developed by them. As a result, some of the sectors like Logistics & retail have commenced degree Apprenticeship programmes in 15 institutions across the country. Further, various institutions have expressed interest to take up the courses in near future. Media & Entertainment Sector Skill Council (MESC) have signed MoUs with 150 institutions to conduct skill oriented BSc., BBA, BVoc. Courses in media and entertainment sector. Also, Logistics Sector Council (LSC) has aligned with about 65 institutions to commence apprenticeship embedded degree, diploma and engineering programmes. The applicability of reservation policy on Institutions/ Universities, which will take up these apprenticeship/ internship based degree/diploma courses will be as per norms under which they have been established.


    The information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604883) Visitor Counter : 338