      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Skill Management Accreditation of Training Centres
      Posted On: 02 MAR 2020 3:40PM by PIB Delhi


    There is a process to get the training centre accredited and affiliated to run National Skill Qualification Framework- NSQF aligned Job Roles. The Centre Accreditation & Affiliation process was earlier carried out on Skill Management Accreditation of Training Centres (SMART) portal ( www.smart.nsdcindia.org ) which is now migrated to an unified portal known as Skill India Portal (SIP). In Skill India Portal, any entity can create a training centre and apply for its affiliation and accreditation after registering itself as a ‘Training Provider’. The detailed process involves:


         1. Registration as a Training Provider.

         2. Desk Assessment of the documents submitted along with the application by an independent agency.
         3. Creation of Training Centre.
         4. Filing of Centre Accreditation Application Form (CAAF).
         5. Desk Assessment of the documents, photographs and other details submitted along with the CAAF by an independent agency.
         6. Physical Inspection of the Training Centre by an independent agency (the Government Institutes are exempted from physical inspection basis declaration provided by a Gazetted officer).

    The final decision on the accreditation and affiliation rests with the aligned Sector Skill Council that is based on pre-defined norms. The whole process is transparent and time bound and can be accessed on the Skill India Portal ( www.skillindia.nsdcindia.org ).


    The Government is not contemplating formulation of any scheme to combine Skill Development and training programmes run by the State Government and Government Universities under SMART portal. However, NSDC facilitates onboarding of such centres on SMART portal.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    YKB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604829) Visitor Counter : 494
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

6.