      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister interacts with Nari Shakti Puraskar Awardees on International Women's Day
      
      Says they are a source of inspiration to the whole country.
      
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2020 6:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister interacted with Nari Shakti Puraskar winners in the capital today. 15 Women achievers from various parts of the country including Leh, Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh shared their trials, struggles and how they achieved their goals with the Prime Minister.


    The achievers includes 103 Year old Ms Mann Kaur, who started athletics at the age of 93 and went on to win 4 Gold Medals in Field and Track events at World Masters Athletic Championship, Poland.


    Arifa Jan from Jammu & Kashmir who is the founder of Numdha Handicrafts is responsible for reviving the lost art of Numdha handicrafts. She shared her experience in training more than 100 women in Kashmir and reviving the dying handicraft.


    Indian Air Force’s first women fighter pilots Mohana Singh, Bhawana Kanth & Avani Chaturvedi also shared their experiences. The trio was induced into IAF fighter squadron after Government of India decided to open fighter stream in IAF for women on experimental basis. They became the first Indian women pilots to take a solo flight in a MIG- 21 in 2018.


    Padala Bhudevi a tribal woman farmer and rural entrepreneur from Andhra Pradesh, Bina Devi from Munger Bihar who is fondly known as ‘Mushroom Mahila’ for popularizing mushroom cultivation also shared their experiences in farming and marketing with the Prime Minister.


    Kalavati Devi a lady mason from Kanpur district in Uttar Pradesh is a driving force towards reducing open defecation in the district. She is responsible for building 4000 + toilets in villages in and around Kanpur. She shared her experience with the Prime Minister on how she has gone door to door to create awareness about the ills of open defecation and how she travelled for multiple hours to villages across Kanpur in her effort towards reducing Open defecation.


    Chami Murmu from Jharkhand, a passionate environmentalist who formed more than 2800 groups with over 30,000 women has shared her experience in planting over 25 lakh trees in barren land.


    98 year old Kathyayani Amma from Kerala shared her experience how she passed the IV standard equivalent exam under Kerala Literacy Mission’s Akasharalaksham Scheme in August 2018. She bagged the first rank and scored 98% marks.


    Addressing the gathering the Prime Minister said that the Nari Shakti Award winners have made great contribution in building the society and inspiring the nation.


    He said the country could not have achieved the open defecation free status without significant contribution from women. Similarly he said malnutrition issue can also be resolved with greater women participation.


    Prime minister also touched upon the issue of water conservation and highlighted that the Jal Jeevan Mission needs a greater participation of women.


    He congratulated the achievers and said that they are a source of inspiration to the whole country.


    ******


    VRRK/VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605735) Visitor Counter : 704
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil