      Ministry of Defence

      No Door should Remain Closed for Women in Armed Forces: Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh
      
      Society develops only with the upliftment of its women : RM
      
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2020 8:38PM by PIB Delhi


    On the Occasion of International Women’s Day 2020 today, Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh said in the armed forces women’s participation has increased over the years and further enhancing their role is the priority of the government. Shri Rajnath Singh said this while presiding over as the chief guest in the Women Transforming India Awards function organized by NITI Aayog. Citing the example of Tania Sher Gill, who led an all-men contingent in Republic Day Parade, he said that women are new leading on many fronts which were once not even open for women. Raksha Mantri also said “we believe that no branch of the Armed Forces should remain closed for women officers. I know that there is some degree of resistance against the commission of women in all branches of the services but this resistance is reducing”. Women today are working in all branches of the Indian Air Force, eight branches of the Army & all non-seagoing branches of Indian Navy. I want to assure you that rest of the branches would be opened soon: Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh.


    Raksha Mantri said women are endowed with the impeccable capabilities of creating, nurturing and transforming. He emphasised the role of women in the workforce in contributing to the economic growth of the nation. He said society develops only with the upliftment of its women. Women participation is necessary for the country to achieve the 5 Trillion Dollar economy target, he said. He went on to remark, 'Today's awardees have overcome financial and societal challenges to not just redefine the word entrepreneurship but also refine it. I congratulate NITI Aayog and WEP for providing women entrepreneurs with a platform to share their dreams, failures and victories with each other and grow from them.'


    *****


    ABB/SS/Nampi/KA/DK/Savvy

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605746) Visitor Counter : 423
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi