      Cabinet

      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Côte d’lvoire for cooperation in the field of Health
      Posted On: 04 MAR 2020 4:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet has approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Republic of India and the Ministry of Health and Public Hygiene of the Republic of Cote d'lvoire on Cooperation in the field of Health.


    The Memorandum of Cooperation covers the following areas of cooperation:-

     1. Exchange & training of medical doctors, officials, other health professionals and experts in the field of advanced medical technology, nuclear medicine, renal transplantation, cardiac surgery, nephrology, hemodialysis and medical research;
     2. Regulation of drugs and pharmaceutical products;
     3. Assistance in development of human resources and setting up of health care facilities;
     4. Medical and health research development;
     5. Management of healthcare sector and public health services including medical evacuations;
     6. Procurement of generic and essential drugs and assistance in sourcing of drug supplies;
     7. Collaboration and research in the field of HIV/AIDS;
     8. Development and improving the techniques and strategies for epidemiological surveillance;
     9. Exchange of best practices in the field of primary health care;
    10. Sharing of know-how on management of hospitals and community healthcare centers;
    11. The promotion of public health and sharing of experiences in medical waste
    12. management;
    13. Health promotion and disease prevention;
    14. Non-Communicable Diseases;
    15. Occupational and Environmental Health;
    16. Medical Research; and
    17. Any other area of cooperation as may be mutually decided upon.

    A Working Group will be set up to further elaborate the details of cooperation and to oversee the implementation of this Memorandum of Understanding.


    ****


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605156) Visitor Counter : 992
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada
    
    
    

17.