      AYUSH

      Steps taken to encourage the use of Ayurveda at the international level
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2020 6:53PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of AYUSH through Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) offers 104 scholarships every year to the eligible foreign nationals from 98 countries for pursuing undergraduate (UG), postgraduate (PG) and Ph. D courses in premier Institutes in India.


    As of now, Ministry of AYUSH has signed 23 Country to Country MoUs for Cooperation in field of Traditional Medicine and Homoeopathy namely Nepal, Bangladesh, Hungary, Trinidad & Tobago, Malaysia, WHO, Mauritius, Mongolia, Turkmenistan, Myanmar, Germany (Joint declaration), Iran, Sao Tome & Príncipe, Equatorial Guinea, Cuba, Colombia, Japan (MoC), Bolivia, Gambia, Republic of Guinea, China, St. Vincent & The Grenadines and Suriname. 22 MoUs have been signed for undertaking collaborative research in AYUSH systems of medicine with various foreign universities in Germany, United Kingdom, Canada, United States, Argentina, Israel, Brazil, Australia, Austria, Tajikistan and Ecuador to conclusively prove the benefits of Ayurveda. 13 MoUs for setting up AYUSH Academic Chairs have been signed with foreign institutes in Hungary, Trinidad & Tobago, South Africa, Thailand, Russia Indonesia Slovenia, Armenia, Latvia, Argentina., Malaysia, Bangladesh and Mauritius.


    Ministry of AYUSH has set up 33 AYUSH Information Cell in 31 countries to disseminate authentic information about AYUSH systems of Medicine.


    Under Central Sector Scheme for promotion of International Cooperation, (IC Scheme), the Ministry of AYUSH undertakes various measures to promote & propagate AYUSH systems of medicine across the globe; to encourage the use of Ayurveda at the international level ; and to increase the acceptability of Ayurveda on a global stage through research, testing, and/or information dissemination.


    Ministry of AYUSH deputes AYUSH experts to foreign countries to participate in international meetings, conferences, training programmes, seminars and on special assignment of the Government of India for promotion and propagation of AYUSH Systems. Financial assistance is also provided for presentation of AYUSH related scientific research papers in international conferences, workshops, seminar etc.


    Incentives are provided to AYUSH drug manufacturers/ entrepreneurs/ AYUSH institutions, AYUSH drug and Hospitals etc. for (a) participating in International exhibitions/ conferences/ workshops/ seminars/ road shows/ trade fairs, etc. for generating awareness amongst the participating public about the AYUSH systems of medicine and; (b) registration of AYUSH products with regulatory authorities of the foreign countries USFDA/EMEA/UK-MHRA/ NHPD (Canada)/ TGA etc. There is a provision of financial support up to Rs. 1.00 Crores for strengthening of Health Centre(s)/ Institution(s) in the foreign host country.


    This information was given by the Minister o f State (IC) for AYUSH Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605617) Visitor Counter : 484