      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Steadfast implementation of National Policy and Action Plan-2015 resulted in consistent decline in both LWE violence and geographical spread of LWE influence: Shri G. Kishan Reddy
      Posted On: 04 MAR 2020 4:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy, in a written reply to a question on discussion with CM's on steps to curb Maoists, in Rajya Sabha today, informed that the Union Home Minister held a meeting to review Left Wing Extremism (LWE) scenario with the Chief Ministers of the affected States on 26 th August 2019.


    During the meeting, various security measures and development interventions taken up by the Central and State Governments to implement the multi-pronged National Policy and Action Plan - 2015 were discussed in detail. Union Ministers of Road Transport & Highways, Rural Development, Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Communication & Information Technology and Finance also attended the meeting. The Union Home Minister assured the States of all the support needed for the in endeavor to fight LWE.


    Shri Reddy also informed that no Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) are being withdrawn from Left Wing Extremism theatre. However, depending on dynamic security scenario CAPFs are redeployed from one area to another. As per Seventh schedule of Constitution of India, ‘Police’ and ‘Public Order’ are State subjects. However, the Central Government supplements the efforts of the State Governments over a wide range of measures including security, development and ensuring rights & entitlements of local communities.


    Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is supporting the State Governments extensively by deployment of CAPF Battalions, provision of helicopters, sanction of India Reserve Battalions (IRBs)/ Special India Reserve Battalions (SIRBs) etc. Funds are provided under Modernization of Police Force (MPF) Scheme, Security Related Expenditure (SRE) Scheme and Special Infrastructure Scheme (SIS) for modernization and training of State Police.


    On development front, apart from flagship schemes of the Central Government, several initiatives have been taken for development of roads, installation of mobile towers, skill development, improving network of banks and post offices, besides strengthening of health and education facilities. Steadfast implementation of the National Policy and Action Plan-2015 has resulted in consistent decline in both LWE violence and geographical spread of LWE influence, Shri Reddy stated.


    *****


    VG/SNC/VM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1605151) Visitor Counter : 295