      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr. Jitendra Singh attends Jan Aushadi Diwas celebrations at Kathua
      
      The day highlights the initiatives taken by The Govt. to provide a quality healthcare, says Dr. Singh
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2020 6:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh attended ‘Jan Aushadhi Diwas’ celebrations at Associated Hospital of Government Medical College, Kathua, Jammu.


    Special arrangements were made to telecast Prime Minister, Narendra Modi`s interaction with owners of Jan Aushadhi Kendras and beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP) across the country through video conference.


    Highlighting the importance of celebrating this day, Dr. Singh said that Jan Aushadhi Diwas aims to provide further impetus and create awareness about the use of generic medicines in India. The day also highlights the initiatives taken by the Government in the direction of making quality healthcare affordable for all, like Ayushman Bharat, PMBJP, etc, he added.


    Listing the benefits of the scheme, he said the Government launched the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana(PMBJP) to promote affordable and quality generic medicines among the people. “The Government plans to have atleast 1 PMBJP Kendra in each block of the country by the end of 2020,” Dr. Singh said. He also said that these Kendras have been established to provide generic drugs, which are available at lesser prices but are equivalent in quality and efficacy as expensive branded drugs.


    “Expensive medicines are affecting adversely the budget of common man and Non Communicable Diseases (NCDs) like Hypertension and Diabetes are spreading their tentacles with enormous speed compelling the patients to take medicines on daily basis. For such affected persons these Jan Aushadhi Kendras prove to be a boon,” Dr. Singh informed.


    Highlighting the achievements of Union government, the Minister said that Kathua has emerged as Education and health services hub with the establishment of several colleges and Hospitals. He said several obsolete and defunct laws have also been repealed.


    "The speed of development in J&K has increased manifold after the creation of Union Territory as all the progressive central laws have been directly implemented here without any hindrance," Dr. Jitendra Singh said.


    He also advised the gathering to take precautions against CoVID-19 Virus by following the advisory issued by the Health ministry.


    Earlier, beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana in Kathua also shared their experience.


    Later, the Union Minister also flagged off a rally for spreading the message of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao.


    ***


    SMA/SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605678) Visitor Counter : 182
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi