      Ministry of Education

      Minister of School Education of Tamil Nadu Sh K. A. Sengottaiyn Calls on Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ today in New Delhi
      
      Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' appreciates the efforts made by Tamil Nadu government in implementing the various education policies in the state

      Posted On: 06 MAR 2020 8:42AM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of School Education of Tamil Nadu Sh K. A. Sengottaiyn called on the Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' at his residence. On this occasion, they had a detailed discussion on greater dissemination of technology related education in the State of Tamil Nadu.


    The HRD Minister was pleased to know that Education Department of Tamil Nadu is making better use of information technology in providing high quality education to students . During the meeting, discussions were also held on support from IIT-Madras for educational cooperation. They also discussed about the effective use of SWAYAM PRABHA platform to provide quality education to students.


    Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' appreciated the efforts taken by Tamil Nadu government in implementing the various education policies in the state. Speaking to the media after meeting the Union HRD Minister in New Delhi today, Tamilnadu School Education Minister Sh K. A. Sengottaiyn said, project of broad based consultations on New Education Policy and several other education projects have been effectively implemented in the state. He said the HRD Minister appreciated the education department and assured the State government that the Centre would examine the new education proposals submitted by the state to Center and extend all help to support the new proposals submitted by the State government to bring in new technology and further improve the Education in the State. He thanked the HRD Minister for giving assurance on considering the proposals.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605643) Visitor Counter : 119
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi