      AYUSH

      Ayurvedic Classification of Diseases
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2020 6:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of AYUSH has developed National Ayurveda Morbidity Codes (NAMC), a comprehensive classification of diseases described in Ayurveda as well as Standardized Ayurveda Terminologies. These have been made available on National AYUSH Morbidity and Standardized Terminologies Electronic Portal (NAMASTE Portal) developed by the Ministry which is available to the public on the URL http://namstp.ayush.gov.in.


    For standardization of Ayurvedic diagnostic and treatment protocol, the Central Council of Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS) under Ministry of AYUSH has undertaken a project on Reliability testing and Validation of Ayurveda diagnostic methods in June 2018. Under this project, some common disease condition have been identified and accordingly the Proforma and manual of selected disease conditions is being drafted and validated through scientific methods in phased manner.


    In the first phase, the disease conditions which have been identified one Kushtha (skin diseases), Kasa, Shwasa and Jwara. The first draft of Kushtha (skin diseases) manual as clinical series-I has been published and for other three disease conditions inter-rator reliability has already been completed and second phase validity is under pipeline in collaboration with the academic institutes of national repute. Further, the development of proforma of various other disease conditions has been initiated.


    Various clinical studies are also being conducted following the integrated protocol in a scientific manner. The brief of clinical studies has been published as glimpses of clinical Research which is available on the Council’s website (www.ccras.nic.in).


    This information was given by the Minister o f State (IC) for AYUSH Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605616) Visitor Counter : 800
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu