      Prime Minister's Office

      PM interacts with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana
      
      Avoid rumours and seek medical help in case of corona virus infection: PM
      
      Right time to reintroduce the habit of joining hands in Namaste, says PM
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2020 2:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today, interacted with the beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana and store owners of Jan Aushadhi Kendras, through video conference.


    Prime Minister said the central government and the state governments are taking all the required steps to tackle the threat of corona virus. He said India also has very skilled doctors medical star resources as well as complete awareness among the citizens. He said that vigilant citizens have a very important role in preventing the spread of the corona virus.


    ऐसे समय में अफवाहें भी तेज़ी से फैलती हैं। कोई कहता है ये नहीं खाना है, वो नहीं करना है, कुछ लोग चार नई चीजें लेकर आ जाएंगे कि ये खाने से कोरोना वाइरस से बचा जा सकता है। हमें इन अफवाहों से भी बचना है।
    जो भी करें, अपने डॉक्टर की सलाह से करें: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 7, 2020

    सवाल-जवाब: Question to PM @narendramodi from Guwahati by अशोक कुमार बेटाला on savings on medicines purchased from Jan Aushadhi Kendra and corona virus challenge

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) March 7, 2020

    Prime Minister said that the importance of frequent washing of hands cannot be overemphasised. Also one should cover one’s mouth and nose while sneezing or coughing to prevent infecting others, he added.


    “All the confirmed cases of Corona virus infection are being kept under necessary supervision. But if a person suspects that he has come in contact with an infected partner, then he need not panic but go to a nearby hospital for a check up. The rest of the people in the family are also more prone to infection, in which case they should also undergo necessary tests”, Prime Minister added.


    Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi requested to avoid any kind of rumormongering about the pandemic Corona Virus andadvised to seek and follow only the doctor's advice.


    “And yes, the whole world is making a habit of Namaste. If for some reason we have given up this habit, then it is also the right time to reintroduce this habit of joining hands in Namaste’’, he added.


    ****


    VRRK/ VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605649) Visitor Counter : 533
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Kannada