      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Dr. Harsh Vardhanchairs multi-stakeholder consultation on prevention and control of deafness
      
      Stresses on early diagnosis and awareness regarding deafness

      Posted On: 03 MAR 2020 7:51PM by PIB Delhi

    “We have to work cohesively so that no child is left out for the screening and treatment related to hearing loss, as this is one of the key components of the vision of our Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji to make a healthy and new India by 2022”, said Dr. Harsh Vardhanhere today, as he chaired a high level multi-stakeholder consultation. Today is also observed as “World Hearing Day”.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that there is a strong need to create awareness for early detection and treatment related to hearing loss. He also said that hearing loss is the fourth leading cause for "Years Lived with Disability' (YLD). Government of India has started the National Programme for Prevention and Control of Deafness (NPPCD) with focus on early identification, diagnosis and treatment of ear problems responsible forhearing loss and deafness. He further informed that the program is being implemented in 558 districts and total numbers of cases examined in the year 2019-20 (9months)with deafness are3,27,172 and total number of ENT surgeries performed are 18,745. The Union Health Minister also stated that the 13,411hearing aids have been fitted and the number of person referred for rehabilitation are 45,953 during the year 2019-20, so far.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan advised that a more focused strategic approach is needed to implement this program in a mission mode. He stated that in order to strengthen the current program to achieve the goal, more brainstorming sessions, awareness camps, monitoring mechanisms etc., need to be started for the desired outcomes.


    The Union Health Minister also suggested finding out the possibilities to associate NPPCD along with other national programs/schemes related to mother and child care. He also added that there is a strong need to promote public awareness through appropriate and effective Information, Education & Communication (IEC) strategieswith special emphasis on prevention of deafness along with capacity building&development for prevention, early identification and management of hearing impaired and deafness cases. In addition, training would be provided from medical college level specialists (ENT and Audiology) to grassroot level workers.


    Dr. Manohar Agnani, Joint Secretary, Dr. Arun Agrawal, Ex-Dean, MAMC, Dr. Kanwar Sen, HoD (ENT), RML, Dr. Sunil Kumar, HoD, RML, LHMC, Prof. Rakesh Kumar, AIIMS (Delhi), Dr. Shantanu Mandal, HoD, ENT, Safdurjung Hospital, Dr. Shiv Prasad Reddy, Audiologist, ISHA, Mysore along with officials from World Health Organization and Ministry of Health & Family Welfare were also present during the meeting.


    ****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605048) Visitor Counter : 556
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi