      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Ministry of Minority Affairs in Forefront for Empowerment of Women
      
      Over two (2) crore women from minority category benefitted in the last five (5) years
      
      Ministry of Minority Affairs implementing various schemes for the socio-economic and educational empowerment of six centrally notified minorities
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2020 9:50AM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Minority Affairs under the Central Government hasbeen implementing various schemes for socio-economic and educational empowerment of women from minority communities.


    The Ministry implements the Pradhan Mantri Jan VikasKaryakram (PMJVK) earlier known as Multi-sectoral Development Programme(MsDP), a Centrally Sponsored Scheme, in identified Minority Concentration Areas (MCAs) of the country with the objective of developing socio-economic assets and basic amenities in these areas to bring them at par with other parts of the country. The thrust of the PMJVK programme is to allocate at least 80% of the resources for education, health and skill development and at least 33-40% of the resources for women centric projects.


    Socio-Economic-Educational Empowerment of Minority Women: Pre-Matric Scholarship Scheme, Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme, Merit-cum-Means based Scholarship Scheme - For educational empowerment of students; Begum Hazrat Mahal National Scholarship for Meritorious Girls belonging to the Minorities. More than 1.94 Crore girl students have benefitted during the last 5 years.


    Others schemes include: “Maulana Azad National Fellowship Scheme”; “Naya Savera” - Free Coaching and Allied Scheme; “Padho Pardesh” and “Nai Udaan”.


    Leadership Development: “Nai Roshni” scheme and various welfare schemes - Leadership development of women belonging to minority communities. About three (3) lakh women have been provided various leadership development training in the last five years.


    Skill Development: “Gharib Nawaz Swarojgar Yojna” for providing shortterm job oriented skill development courses to youth belonging to minority communities.


    “Seekho Aur Kamao” - Skill development scheme for youth of 14 - 35 years age group and aiming at improving the employability of existing workers, school dropouts etc.


    Nai Manzil - A scheme for formal school education & skilling of school dropouts.


    4.35 lakh women have been provided employment oriented skill development training.


    “Hunar Haats”, organised by the Union Ministry of Minority Affairs in various cities, offer unique opportunities to young entrepreneurs and aspirants to experiment and explore novel means of creativity coupled with livelihood.” “Hunar Haats” have a 50% reservation for women. It started at 20%, but over the years it has increased to ensure more women’s participation. There are a large number of women self-help groups associated with Hunar Haats. 1.35 lakh women artisans have benefitted through Hunar Haats during the last three (3) years.


    Haj without “Mehram: Restrictions lifted on Muslim women going for Haj without “Mehram” (male companion). 5,544 Muslim women have performed Haj without “Mehram” during the last three (3) years.


    Social Empowerment: Brought the law to ban the social evils like Triple Talaq. Constitutional and Social rights of Muslim women have been ensured.


    *****


    KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605697) Visitor Counter : 1008
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi