      Ministry of Railways

      In view of the Holi festival, Indian Railways plans to run 402 special train services in March 2020 to ensure smooth and comfortable travel to the passengers
      
      These special train services will cater to lakhs of passengers who plan to travel to their native place during this festival
      
      Besides special trains & augmentation of coaches in regular trains, crowd management at major stations has been prioritized
      
      Additional RPF personnel have been deployed at important stations & in trains to ensure security of passengers
      
      Posted On: 05 MAR 2020 5:01PM by PIB Delhi


    In this ongoing festive season, Indian Railways is sharing the joy of festivities with the passengers by ensuring special arrangements for the passengers travelling to their native places to celebrate festival of Holi with their families.


    For the convenience of rail travellers and to clear extra rush of passengers during this festive season, Indian Railways is running 402 special train services in the month of March, 2020. Also, augmentation of coaches in regular trains is being done to ensure the more seat and berth availability during this festive rush. These special train services will cater to lakhs of passengers who plan to travel to their native place during this festival.


    Indian Railways is running special trains across the country. Special Trains have been planned to connect major destinations across the country on railway sectors like Delhi-Patna, Delhi-Chappra, Delhi-Pune , Chandigarh-Gorakhpur, Mumbai-Varanasi , Mumbai-Patna, Mumbai-Udupi, Mumbai-Gaya, Mumbai-Barauni, Ahmedabad-Patna, Gandhidham-Bhagalpur, Howrah-Gorakhpur, Lucknow-Kolkata, Ranchi-Patna, Secundrabad-Patna, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-Varanasi-Nagaldam-Lucknow etc.


    Crowd controlling measures by forming queue at the terminus stations with the supervision of RPF staff for orderly entry of passengers in unreserved coaches is being ensured. Additional RPF personnel have been deployed in major stations to ensure security of passengers.


    Adequate lighting arrangements have been made at stations for the convenience of passengers. Senior officers are being deployed on Emergency Duty at major stations to ensure smooth running of trains. Staffs are deployed in various sections to attend any disruption of train service on priority. Measures have been taken for frequent and timely announcement of arrival/departure of trains with platform numbers.


    “May I Help You” booths are kept operational at important stations where RPF Personnel and TTEs are deputed for proper assistance and guidance of the passengers. Medical Teams are available at major stations on call. Ambulance with paramedical team will also be available. All efforts are being done to ensure no change of platform at the last moment.


    A watch on any malpractices – like cornering of seats, over charging and touting activity etc., is being done and strictly monitored by the Security and Vigilance Department staff. Instructions, for maintaining cleanliness at waiting halls, retiring rooms, passenger amenity area in particular, and at stations in general, have been given by Zonal Headquarters.


    *****


    RCJ/MKV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1605398) Visitor Counter : 302
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi