      Ministry of Railways

      Steps taken by Indian Railway for Safety and Security of passengers
      Posted On: 04 MAR 2020 6:09PM by PIB Delhi


    Policing on Railways being a State subject, prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law & order in Railway premises as well as on running trains are the statutory responsibility of the State Governments, which they discharge through Government Railway Police (GRP)/District Police. Cases of Indian Penal Code (IPC) crimes are registered and investigated by the concerned Government Railway Police. Whenever any information about status of crime on Railways is sought, State GRP is requested to provide information. Based on the data provided by Government Railway Police Stations, there is decrease in cases of molestation of women passengers, theft of passengers belongings’ (TOPB), Dacoity and Drugging of passengers in long distance trains registered during the year 2019 as compared to the previous year i.e. 2018.


    However, the following steps are also being taken by the Railways in coordination with GRP for safety and security of passengers including women passengers in trains and at stations:-


    1. On vulnerable and identified routes/sections, 2200 trains (on an average) are escorted by Railway Protection Force daily in addition to 2200 trains escorted by Government Railway Police of different States daily.


    2. Security Help Line number 182 is operational over Indian Railways for security related assistance to passengers in distress.


    3. Through various social media platforms viz. twitter, facebook etc., Railways are in regular touch with passengers to enhance security and address their security concerns.


    4. Frequent announcements are made through Public Address System to educate passengers to take precautions against theft, snatching, drugging etc.


    5. An Integrated Security System (ISS) consisting of surveillance of vulnerable stations through Close Circuit Television (CCTV) Camera Network, Access Control etc. has been sanctioned to improve surveillance mechanism over 202 railway stations.


    6. Fixed CCTV cameras have been provided in 2136 coaches (upto January, 2020) and 522 Railway stations (upto January, 2020) for enhancing security of passengers.


    7. Drives are conducted from time to time against the entry of unauthorized persons in trains and railway premises.


    8. Ladies Special trains running in Metropolitan cities are being escorted by lady RPF personnel. In other trains, where escorts are provided, the train escorting parties have been briefed to keep extra vigil on the lady passengers travelling alone, ladies coaches en-route and at halting stations.


    9. Emergency Talk Back System and Closed Circuit Television Surveillance Cameras have been provided in ladies compartments/coaches of all newly manufactured Electrical Multiple Unit (EMU) and Air-conditioned rakes of Kolkata Metro. This system has also been provided in all newly manufactured Air-conditioned EMU rakes. With a view of further fortify the security system, in addition to CCTV Cameras and Emergency Talk Back System, Flasher lights have also been provided in ladies coaches in EMU rakes in South Eastern Railway. When the alarm chain of the coach will be pulled, these lights will start blinking and buzzer will start sounding till resetting of alarm chain.


    10. State Level Security Committee of Railways (SLSCR) have been constituted for all State/Union Territories under the Chairmanship of respective Director General of Police/Commissioner of States/Union Territories for regular monitoring and review of security arrangements of the Railways.


    This press release is based on information given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    RCJ/MKV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1605232) Visitor Counter : 239