      Ministry of Railways

      Security of Rail Passengers
      Posted On: 11 MAR 2020 5:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Policing on Railways being a State subject, prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law & order in Railway premises as well as on running trains are the statutory responsibility of State Governments, which they discharge through Government Railway Police (GRP)/District Police. Cases of Indian Penal Code (IPC) crime in Railways are registered and investigated by the concerned Government Railway Police. Railway Protection Force (RPF) supplements the efforts of GRP to provide better protection and security to passenger area & passengers and for matters connected therewith. Several incidents of robbery in trains have been reported and to effectively control them. Following steps have been taken by the Railways in coordination with GRP for security of passengers in trains and at stations:-

     1. On vulnerable and identified routes/sections, 2200 trains (on an average) are escorted by Railway Protection Force daily in addition to 2200 trains escorted by Government Railway Police of different States daily.
     2. Security Help Line number 182 is operational over Indian Railways for security related assistance to passengers in distress.
     3. Through various social media platforms viz. twitter, facebook etc., Railways are in regular touch with passengers to enhance security and address their security concerns.
     4. Frequent announcements are made through Public Address System to educate passengers to take precautions against theft, snatching, drugging etc
     5. An Integrated Security System (ISS) consisting of surveillance of vulnerable stations through Close Circuit Television (CCTV) Network, Access Control etc. has been sanctioned to improve surveillance mechanism over 202 railway stations.
     6. CCTV cameras have been provided in 2136 coaches (upto January, 2020) and 522 Railway stations (upto January, 2020) for enhancing security of passengers.
     7. Drives are conducted from time to time against the entry of unauthorized persons in trains and railway premises.
     8. State Level Security Committee of Railways (SLSCR) have been constituted for all State/Union Territories under the Chairmanship of respective Director General of Police/ Commissioner of States/Union Territories for regular monitoring and review of security arrangements of the Railways.

    Further, close liaison is made by Railways with the State Police/GRP authorities at all levels for prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law & order in Railway premises as well as on running trains.


    This press release is based on information given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SG


    

    
    (Release ID: 1605994) Visitor Counter : 183
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

8.