      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      Shri R K Singh Launched New Website of Ministry of New and Renewable Energy
      
      
      Site is more Informative and User friendly Including for Visually Challenged
      Posted On: 14 MAR 2020 5:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State (I/C) for Power and New and Renewable Energy and Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R K Singh launched the new website of Ministry of New and Renewable Energy late afternoon here yesterday. Speaking on the occasion, Minister directed that sectoral updation of the site should be personally ensured at senior level so that it maintains pace with time.


    


    The new website is developed looking in to the present need of quick and accurate information dissemination needs of the Ministry with latest techniques to make it more informative, interactive and user friendly including persons with visual disabilities. The responsive design of the website enables ease of access from various devices including mobile phones. The Ministry’s activities including innovative bids, solar rooftop and PM-


    KUSUM scheme were attracting large public interest which necessitated need for a new website.


    The key feature of the website includes optimized user interface, three click interfaces, rubik’s cube structure and improvised search options. Structured back end content management system (CMS) is developed to manage the website with minimum sources and less time consuming. The website has additional portals such as ‘Akshay Urja Portal’ and ‘India Renewable Idea Exchange’ (IRIX). Well identifiable links are provided for all the activities of the Ministry to provide the information at ease. Two language interfaces are provided in the website to make the contents reachable to wider public. Additionally, social media handles of the Ministry such as Facebook, you tube and twitter are linked on the homepage of the web site. The NIC server is hosting the website.
    
    The new website would be able to cater to renewed public interest in the Ministry’s activities.

    

    **************


    RCJ/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606417) Visitor Counter : 1017
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi