      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      M/O Social Justice & Empowerment proposes to restructure “Scheme for Comprehensive Rehabilitation of Beggars”
      Posted On: 18 MAR 2020 5:38PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has proposed to restructure & formulate a scheme namely "Scheme for Comprehensive Rehabilitation of Beggars". It will be a comprehensive scheme for persons engaged in the Act of begging which would cover identification, rehabilitation, provision of medical facilities, counselling, education, skill development with the support of State Governments/UTs/Local Urban Bodies and Voluntary Organizations, institutions etc. The Union Minister for Social Justice & Empowerment Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot said that the scheme will be implemented in the selected cities having large concentration of Beggar community during the financial year 2020-2021. He said that the government is working in a mission mode with complete commitment to ‘Har Ek Kaam, Desh Ke Naam’.


    Pilot project of this scheme will be initiated during Financial Year 2019-20 subject to submission of city specific Action Plan by the State Governments. 100% Assistance under the Scheme shall be provided to the States/UTs for its implementation.


    During 2017-18, the Ministry has released an amount of Rs. One crore and Rs. 50.00 lakh for 2018-19 to National Backward Classes Finance & Development Corporation (NBCFDC) for skill development programmes for beggars on pilot basis. The Corporation has so far conducted skill development training programme for 400 members of beggar’s community in Warehouse Packer, Hand-rolled Agarbatti making, Hand Embroiderer etc. Further, the Corporation has also sanctioned skill development training programme for 160 members of beggars’ community in Self-Employed Tailor, Coir Artisans and Asst. Carpenter job role. During the year 2019-20, this Ministry has released an amount of Rs. One Crore to National Institute of Social Defence (NISD) and Rs. 70.00 Lakh to National Backward Classes Finance & Development Corporation (NBCFDC) for skill development programmes for beggars.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/MoSJ&E/18.03.2020

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606946) Visitor Counter : 488
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi