      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Development of Nomadic Tribes
      Posted On: 11 MAR 2020 6:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Nomadic Tribes have been identified by the survey done by erstwhile National Commission for De-Notified and Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Tribes. However, population of Nomadic tribes has not been maintained by the Government.


    For all-round development of Nomadic tribes a Development and Welfare Board for De-notified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Communities (DWBDNCs) has been constituted on 21.02.2019 for a period of three years extendable up to 5 years with following terms of reference:-


    · To formulate and Implement Welfare and Development programme as required, for De-notified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Communities.


    · To identify the locations/areas where these communities are densely populated.


    · To assess and identify gaps in accessing existing programmes and entitlements and to collaborate with Ministries/Implementing agencies to ensure that ongoing programmes meet the special requirements of De-notified Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Communities.


    · To monitor and evaluate the progress of the schemes of Government of India and the States/UTs with reference to De-notified Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Communities.


    · To redress the grievances of DNTs communities and fulfill their expectations.


    In order to reduce hardships faced by the DNT Communities under the habitual offenders Act, the Cabinet on 15.02.2019 has approved the proposal of Department of Social Justice and Empowerment and accordingly, the matter of repealing/abolishment of Offenders Act was taken up with the Ministry of Home Affairs with the request to hold consultations with the concerned States/UTs where the habitual offenders Act is in the practices.


    269 communities which are currently not classified under SC/ST/OBC/Other communities, Development and Welfare Board for De-notified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Communities (DWBDNCs) have been working on classification of these communities. Further NITI Aayog has assigned the task of ethnographic survey of 62 tribes to the Anthropological Survey of India (AnSI) to conduct the studies of these communities in different parts of the country. For this purpose an amount of Rs. 2,26,32,500/- (Rupees two crore twenty six lakh thirty two thousand five hundred only) has been sanctioned.


    In addition, the following schemes are being implemented by State Government/UT Administrations for the DNTs:-


     1. Pre-Matric Scholarship to DNT Students.

     2. Post-Matric Scholarship to DNT Students.

    iii) Nanaji Deshmukh Scheme of Construction of Hostels for DNT Boys and Girls.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/SJ&E/RS/11-03-2020


    

    
    (Release ID: 1606017) Visitor Counter : 883
    
    
    
    
    

2.