      Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying

      Target of Blue Revolution
      Posted On: 17 MAR 2020 5:53PM by PIB Delhi


    India, one of the major fish producing nations in the world stands 2 nd in aquaculture production in the world. The Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying is implementing various schemes/programmes for development of fisheries sector with a view towards enhancement of fish production. The details of the schemes and facilities provided to small and medium farmers for pisciculture are as below:


    (i) The Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) on Blue Revolution: Integrated Development and Management of Fisheries at a total central outlay of Rs. 3000 crore has been implemented since 2015-16 for development of fisheries in the country. The CSS inter-alia, provides financial assistance for development of fisheries and aquaculture sector including fish production and post harvest related activities like fish brood banks, hatcheries, construction of ponds, rearing ponds, installation of cages in reservoirs and open sea cages fish culture, fish feed mills, development of post-harvest infrastructure like ice plants, cold storages, ice plants-cum-cold storages and development of fish landing centre in reservoirs and fishing harbours,.


    (ii) Fisheries and Aquaculture Infrastructure Fund (FIDF) has been implemented with a fund size of Rs. 7522.48 crore for providing access to concessional finance for development of fisheries infrastructure in the country. Under the FIDF, the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying provides interest subvention up to 3% per annum for providing the concessional finance by the Nodal Loaning Entities for development of infrastrucutre in the fisheries sector.


    (iii) The Government of India during 2018-19 has extended the facility of Kisan Credit Card (KCC) to fish farmers to help them to meet their working capital needs. Under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) on Blue Revolution: Integrated Development and Management of Fisheries, a total amount of Rs.550.00 crore has been allocated during 2019-20 for development of fisheries in the country including Maharashtra.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Shri Pratap Chandra Sarangi in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606785) Visitor Counter : 848