      Ministry of Culture

      Various steps have been taken to promote Buddhist studies, art and culture in India-Shri Prahlad Singh Patel
      Posted On: 17 MAR 2020 4:54PM by PIB Delhi


    To provide education in Buddhist philosophies, culture and Art and to promote research in different aspects of Buddhism, preserve ancient Buddhist manuscripts, digitize ancient Buddhist text preserved in the languages of Pali, Sanskrit, Tibetan, Chinese, Japanese and other Asian languages through the system of a modern university, this Ministry has established one institute namely “Central Institute of Himalayan Culture Studies” (CIHCS), Dahung, Arunachal Pradesh and taken over the following three Institutions, which have been granted Deemed University Status by UGC :


     1. Nava Nalanda Mahavihara, Nalanda (NNM), Bihar

     2. Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies (CIHTS), Sarnath, Varanasi
     3. Central Institute of Buddhist Studies (CIBS), Leh, UT of Ladakh

    In addition to the aforesaid four Autonomous Buddhist Educational Institutes, Ministry of Culture also provides annual grants-in-aid to the following six Grantee Bodies for promoting Buddhist Culture and Art:


     1. Library of Tibetan Works and Archives, Dharamshala

     2. Tibet House, New Delhi
     3. Centre for Buddhist Cultural Studies, Tawang Monastery, Arunachal Pradesh
     4. Namgyal Institute of Tibetology, Sikkim
     5. International Buddhist Confederation
     6. GRL Monastic School, Bomdila, Arunachal Pradesh

    Further, Scheme of Financial Assistance for the Development of Buddhist/Tibetan Culture and Art is also being implemented by M/o Culture to give financial assistance to voluntary Buddhist/Tibetan organizations including monasteries engaged in the propagation and scientific development of Buddhist/Tibetan culture, tradition and research in related fields.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/c) of Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606763) Visitor Counter : 480
    
    
    
    
    

6.