      Ministry of Education

      Government is running ‘Samagra Shiksha’ Scheme to ensure equitable and inclusive education -HRD Minister
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2020 4:24PM by PIB Delhi


    Samagra Shiksha - an Integrated Scheme for School Education has been launched throughout the country as a Centrally Sponsored Scheme with effect from the year 2018-19. This programme subsumes the three erstwhile Centrally Sponsored Schemes of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) and Teacher Education (TE). It is an overarching programme for the school education sector extending from pre-school to class XII and aims to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education at all levels of school education. It envisages the ‘school’ as a continuum from pre-school, primary, upper primary, secondary to senior secondary levels.


    The major interventions under the scheme are: (i) Universal Access including Infrastructure Development and Retention; (ii) Gender and Equity; (iii) Inclusive Education; (iv) Quality; (v) Financial support for Teacher Salary; (vi) Digital initiatives; (vii) Entitlements under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009 including uniforms, textbooks etc.; (viii) Pre-school Education; (ix) Vocational Education; (x) Sports and Physical Education; (xi) Strengthening of Teacher Education and Training; and (xii) Monitoring of the scheme. Its main features, inter alia, are as follows:


     1. Universalizing access to quality school education by expansion of schooling facilities in the uncovered areas through up-gradation of schools up-to senior secondary level.

     2. Ensuring availability of adequate infrastructure to ensure that schools conform to the prescribed norms.
     3. Annual Grant of Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 20,000/- per school for strengthening of
        Libraries.
     4. Composite school grant of Rs. 25,000-1 Lakh to be allocated on the basis of school enrolment.
     5. Annual Grant for sports equipments at the cost of Rs. 5000 for Primary Schools,
        Rs. 10,000 for upper primary schools and up to Rs. 25,000 for secondary and
        senior secondary schools.
     6. Allocation for children with Special Needs (CwSN) of Rs. 3,500 per child per annum including a stipend of Rs. 200 per month for CWSN girls to be provided from Classes I to XII.
     7. Allocation for uniforms at the rate of Rs. 600 per child per annum.
     8. Allocation for textbooks at the rate of Rs. 250/400 per child per annum.
     9. Upgradation of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) from Class 6-8 to
        Class 6-12.
    10. Strengthening Teacher Education Institutions like SCERTs and DIETs to improve the quality of teachers.
    11. Enhanced use of digital technology in education through smart classrooms, digital boards and DTH channels.
    12. Support States & UTs for implementation of provisions of RTE Act, including reimbursement under Section 12(1)(c) of the Act.
    13. Setting up of residential schools and hostels for difficult areas and for children in difficult circumstances.

    Besides this, approval has been given to States and UTs for setting up of Youth and Eco Club in Government Schools in 2019-20 under Samagra Shiksha. Youth clubs in schools are an instrument to develop life skills, build self-esteem, develop self-confidence and resilience. Eco clubs in schools aim to empower students to participate and take up meaningful environmental activities and projects.


    Further, in order to experience and celebrate the rich cultural diversity of India and to encourage experimental learning, Rangotsav was organized in schools in 2018-19. Rangotsav is an initiative of the Ministry aimed to promote experiential learning. Some of the major activities undertaken under Rangotsav are Kala Utsav, Role Play Competition, Band Competition, Bhasha Sangam and Folk dance competition.


    The information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606557) Visitor Counter : 635
    
    
    
    
    

3.  
    
5.  
    
9.  
13.