      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Irrigation Facility to Farmers
      Posted On: 12 MAR 2020 4:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Water Resources Projects are planned, funded, executed and maintained by the State Governments themselves as per their own resources and priority. In order to supplement their efforts, Government of India provides technical and financial assistance to State Governments to encourage sustainable development and efficient management of water resources through various schemes and programmes.


    Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) was launched during the year 2015-16, with an aim to enhance physical access of water on farm and expand cultivable area under assured irrigation, improve on-farm water use efficiency, introduce sustainable water conservation practices, etc. PMKSY has various components viz. Accelerated Irrigation Benefits Programme (AIBP), PMKSY –Har Khet Ko Pani (HKKP) including Command Area Development and Water Management (CADWM), Surface-Minor Irrigation (SMI) and Repair, Renovation and Restoration (RRR) of Water Bodies [Implemented by DoWR, RD & GR, MoJS], PMKSY-Per Drop More Crop (PDMC) [Implemented by Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare] and PMKSY- Watershed Development Component(WDC) [Implemented by Department of Land Resources].


    Further, during 2016-17, Ninety-Nine (99) on-going Major/Medium irrigation/ Extension, Renovation & Modernization (ERM) projects (and 7 phases) under PMKSY-AIBP including 8 projects of Odisha, having ultimate irrigation potential of 76.03 lakh hectare and balance cost of Rs.77595 crore [Central Assistance (CA) component of Rs.31342 crore] estimated at that time, have been prioritized in consultation with States for completion in phases along with their Command Area Development & Water Management (CADWM) works. Funding mechanism through NABARD has also been approved by the Government for both Central and State Share.


    AIBP works of 40 prioritized projects (including 5 in Odisha) have been reported to be completed/ almost completed. At present there is no ongoing PMKSY-AIBP Project in Padampur Sub-Division of Bargarh district of Odisha.


    For the efficient distribution of available water and to avoid the problems of Land Acquisition, use of pressurized pipe system wherever feasible is encouraged. DoWR, RD & GR and Central Water Commission (CWC) has prepared guidelines for proper planning, design and implementation of Piped Irrigation Network and the same was circulated to States for reference during July, 2017.


    Further, the CADWM programme is also being implemented in respect of 99 prioritized projects. The CADWM programme mandates to cover atleast 10% of the command under micro irrigation.


    Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare (DoAC & FW) is also implementing Per Drop More Crop (PDMC) component of Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY). The PMKSY-PDMC focuses on water use efficiency at farm level through precision/micro irrigation.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti & Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Rattan Lal Kataria in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    APS/PK/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606101) Visitor Counter : 576