      Ministry of Railways

      Emergency Medical Rooms at Railway Stations
      Posted On: 18 MAR 2020 5:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Central Railway has identified 26 railway stations of Mumbai Division for providing Emergency Medical Rooms. Out of these 26 stations, Emergency Medical Rooms (EMRs) are functional at 18 railway stations. Further, tenders have been invited from various Public and Private Hospitals/ nursing homes/ polyclinics/ clinics/ private practitioners/ companies etc. for establishment of EMRs at remaining 08 stations.


    In compliance of orders of Hon’ble Supreme Court and as recommended by Committee of experts constituted at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), instructions have been issued to provide a Medical Box containing life saving medicines, equipments, oxygen cylinder etc. at all Railway stations and passenger carrying trains. Front line staff i.e. Train Ticket Examiner, Train Superintendents, Assistant Station Master etc. are trained in rendering First Aid. Regular refresher courses are conducted for such staff. List of near-by hospitals and doctors along with their contact numbers is available at all Railway Stations. Ambulance services of Railways, State Government/Private Hospitals and ambulance service providers are utilized to transport the injured/ sick passengers to the hospitals/doctor’s clinics.


    In addition, as per orders of Hon’ble Bombay High Court, clinics have been established at 24 sub-urban stations of Mumbai run by non-railway Medical Professional Groups. Such clinics have also been established at 29 other railway stations in the country. These clinics can attend any patient besides rendering emergency medical care to bonafide railway passengers.


    This press release is based on information given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    DJN/SG/MKV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1606966) Visitor Counter : 163