      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Enough Stocks of APIs and Formulations
      Posted On: 13 MAR 2020 6:32PM by PIB Delhi


    National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) has informed that they have not received any reference regarding shortage of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients. The Indian Drugs Manufactures Association (IDMA) has assured that its members have enough stocks of APIs and formulations.


    NPPA has also informed that they have not received any reference from pharma associations regarding steep increase in price of medicines due to outbreak of COVID-19 in China. The AIOCD AWACS has reported increase in drug prices for month ending February 2020 at 0.6 %. Further, NPPA has issued D.O dated 20.02.2020 to Chief Secretaries of all the States /UTs to monitor the production and availability of APIs and their formulations to prevent black marketing and hoarding and to ensure price compliance as per the Drugs (Prices Control) Order (DPCO,2013) under intimation to NPPA. NPPA has also written to Pharma Associations in the matter. NPPA is monitoring the situation regularly to ensure that ceiling prices of essential medicines are not breached.


    Further, Department of Pharmaceuticals has constituted a Committee under the chairmanship of Dr. Eshwara Reddy, Joint Drugs Controller, Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) to address the issue of drug security in the country in the context of novel coronavirus outbreak in China. Based on the recommendations of the Committee, the department has issued necessary instructions to National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) and Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to ensure adequate supply of APIs and formulations at affordable prices in the market and to prevent black-marketing, illegal hoarding, creating artificial shortages in the country. In this regard, Department of Pharmaceuticals has written to DGFT to restrict exports of 13 API and formulations made using these APIs.


    The Indian Pharmaceutical industry is 3 rd largest in the world in terms of volume and 14 th largest in terms of value. India exported medicines worth US $14389 mn in Financial Year 2018-19. India also exported Bulk Drug/Drug Intermediates worth US $ 3911mn in Financial Year 2018-19. However, the country also imports various Bulk Drugs/Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) for producing medicines. Two-thirds of the total imports of Bulk Drugs/Drug Intermediates is from China. The imports from China are mainly due to economic considerations. The details of India’s imports of Bulk Drugs/Drug Intermediates (including from China) are as under:

                                                                         
Year     Total Imports  Imports from China  Percent of Imports from China
                                                                         
                                                                         
         (US $ mn)      (US$ mn)                                         
                                                                         
                                                                         
                                                                         
2018-19  3560.35        2405.42             67.56%                       
                                                                         
                                                                         

    The policies formulated by Government from time to time are designed to minimize country’s dependence on imports and to give fillip to indigenous manufacturing. In this direction, the Department of Pharmaceuticals has formulated a Scheme namely ‘Assistance to Bulk Drug Industry for Common Facility Centre’ for providing assistance to Bulk Drug Industry for Common Facility Centre in any upcoming bulk drug park promoted by State Governments/State Corporations.


    This information was given in written replies by the Minister for Chemicals & fertilizers, Shri. D.V. Sadananda Gowda in Rajya Sabha today.


    ***


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606367) Visitor Counter : 501