      Ministry of Steel

      Iron Ore and Finished Iron
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2020 3:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The production, export and estimated consumption of iron ore in the country are as under:-


    (in million tonnes)

                                                      
Year     Production  Export  Estimated Consumption    
                                                      
                                                      
                                                      
2018-19  207.7       16.2    159.94                   
                                                      
                                                      

    (Source: JPC/IBM)


    The crude steel capacity, crude steel production and total finished steel export and consumption in the country are as under:-


    (in million tonnes)

                                                                                                       
Year     Crude Steel Capacity  Crude Steel Production  Total Finished  Total Finished Steel Consumption
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                       
                                                       Steel Export                                    
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                       
2018-19  142.24                110.92                  6.36            98.71                           
                                                                                                       
                                                                                                       

    Source: JPC


    The production of iron ore in the country is sufficient to meet the current demand/consumption of iron ore by domestic steel industry. However, the entire demand of coking coal is not met from domestic production as the availability of high-quality coking coal (low-ash coal) in the country is limited and thus no option is left but to resort to import of coking coal.


    As regards coking coal, during 2018-19 the total demand of coking coal for steel industry was 58.37 MT. Out of this, 51.83 MT were met through imports, 1.6 MT was provided by Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) and Coal India Limited (CIL) and remaining was catered by captive collieries of SAIL and TATA Steel.


    Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL): SAIL is focussed on maximising sales through existing and new markets. There are continuous efforts to improve upon the customer services. During 2018-19, saleable steel sales were 14.11 Million Tonnes. In the current financial year 2019-20 till Dec, 2019, the saleable steel sales are about 10.7 Million Tonnes, which is a growth of about 7.7% over CPLY. SAIL has made efforts to improve customer services through introduction of new brands of reinforcement Bars & Parallel Flanged Structurals, Digital Payment Methods, Door-delivery, Incentivisation of local MSMEs around its Plants etc.


    SAIL has also exported various products to new international markets. Some of the initiatives taken towards higher customer satisfaction for export markets are:-

     1. Commencing operations from Paradip Port for exports
     2. Increased number of containerized shipments for catering to smaller sized export orders.

    RashtriyaIspat Nigam Limited (RINL): RINL policies are directed towards enhancing its presence in the steel market while supplying quality steel to the customers. For providing fillip/boost to the steel consumption in rural India, pro-active campaign is made to highlight usage of RINL products & their advantages in the community infrastructure in rural & semi-urban areas.


    RINL regularly supplies steel products to many MSME units, including SSICs & NSICs, engaged in the manufacturing sector. Besides, RINL has a large network of Manufacturers, Project customers & Retailers to cater to the steel requirements across the country. RINL is giving emphasis and thrust on exports.


    To improve the existing process & products and also to develop new products, RINL interacts with its customers on regular basis and takes their feedback and requirement.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of Steel Shri Dharmendra Pradhan in the Lok Sabha today in reply to an Unstarred Question.


    ******


    YKB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606552) Visitor Counter : 472
    
    
    
    
    

          
          
          
          
          
          
          
          
2.