      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Bio-Technology/ S&T Parks
      Posted On: 13 MAR 2020 3:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) has supported the following Biotechnology parks in various states:


     1. Biotech Park, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh

     2. Tidco Centre for Life Sciences (TICEL) Biotech Park, Chennai, Tamil Nadu
     3. The Golden Jubilee Biotech Park for Women, Chennai, Tamil Nadu
     4. Biotechnology Incubation Centre, Hyderabad, Telangana
     5. Biotech Park Technology Incubation Centre, Guwahati, Assam
     6. Biotechnology Incubation Centre, Cochin, Kerala
     7. Biotechnology Park, Bangalore, Karnataka
     8. Industrial Biotechnology Parks (IBTPs), Jammu & Kashmir
     9. Chhattisgarh Biotech Park

    These Biotechnology Parks offer facilities to Scientists, and Small and Medium sized Enterprises (SMEs) for technology incubation, technology demonstration and pilot plant studies for accelerated commercial development of Biotechnology and helps to translate research into products and services by providing necessary infrastructure support.


    The Department of Biotechnology received following proposals from various State Governments to establish such Parks during the last three years including current year. The details are given below:

                                                                                                                                                                                                    
S.N.  Year     Proposal received from State Governments                                                                                                                      Present status         
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
1     2016-17  Establishment of two Industrial Biotechnology Parks (IBTPs) in the State of Jammu & Kashmir                                                                   Sanctioned in June 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
2     2017-18  Establishment of Biotech Park in Raipur, Chhattisgarh                                                                                                         Sanctioned in July 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                1. Establishment of Biopharma Growth Phase Park and a common Scale-up Manufacturing Facility with Training provision in Genome Valley, Telangana, Hyderabad                         
3     2018-19                                                                                                                                                                Under consideration    
                1. Setting up of Biotech Park in West Bengal                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                1. Establishment of C-CAMP Biotech Innovation Park, Bengaluru                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                1. Establishment of Biotech Park at Science City, Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh                                                                                                          
4     2019-20                                                                                                                                                                Under consideration    
                1. Setting up of Biotech Park and Incubation Centre in Madhya Pradesh                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                1. Establishment of Biotech Park at Village Aduwal, Nalagarh, Distt. Solan, Himachal Pradesh                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                    

    This was stated by Dr Harsh Vardhan, Minister of Science & Technology, Health and Family Welfare and Earth Sciences in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    SNC/KGS (LSQ 3449 )

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606248) Visitor Counter : 633
    
    
    
    
    

         
         
         
         
         
         
    1.   
         
    1.   
         
9.