      Ministry of Education

      Unnat Bharat Abhiyan is transforming the living conditions in villages-HRD Minister
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2020 4:27PM by PIB Delhi


    The main objectives of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) are as under:


     1. To engage the faculty and students of Higher Educational Institutions (HEIs) in identifying development issues in rural areas and finding sustainable solutions for the same.

     2. Identify & select existing innovative technologies, enable customisation of technologies, or devise implementation method for innovative solutions, as required by the people.
     3. To allow HEIs to contribute to devising systems for smooth implementation of various Government programmes.

    Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0 is the upgraded version of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 1.0.The scheme is extended to all educational institutes; however under Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0 Participating institutes are selected based on the fulfillment of certain criteria.


    State-wisedetails regarding participating institutes and adopted villages is available in the website of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan https://unnatbharatabhiyan.gov.in/participating_institutes .


    Unnat Bharat Abhiyan is inspired by the vision of transformational change in rural development processes by leveraging knowledge institutions to help build the architecture of an Inclusive India. Currently under the scheme UBA, 13072 villages have been adopted by 2474 Institutes. The technology interventions under the scheme Unnat Bharat Abhiyan has been able to transform the living conditions in villages. The technological interventions under the UBA cover different subjects broadly categorized like in the area of sustainable agriculture; water resource management; artisans, industries and livelihood; basic amenities (infrastructure & services) and rural energy system. With the interventions in the abovementioned areas, various new and old technologies has been developed which have transformed the living conditionsin villages and has been beneficial for rural India.


    Some technological interventions done under scheme UBA are; i)Mushroom Cultivation done in Gendikata cluster by IIT Delhi; ii) Environment Controlled Automated Green House For High Valued Agro Produce by HVPM College of Engineering and Technology (Amravati); iii) Safe Drinking Water by NIT Manipur and IIT Jodhpur; iv)Paper bag making by BITS Mesra; v)Pattal crockery making by NIT Hamirpur; vi) Cloth Bag making by Fatima College, Madurai; vii) Revamping of Govt. schools in Vrindavan Cluster by IIT Delhi; viii) Improved Pottery Kiln in farrukhnagar cluster by IIT Delhi; ix)Thread winding machine for weavers by Dr. B. R. Ambedkar University, Etcherla; x) Agriculture drone system by Santhiram Engineering College, Nandyal (A.P) etc।


    The detailed interventions done under the scheme Unnat Bharat Abhiyan for betterment of rural community can be accessed at https://unnatbharatabhiyan.gov.in/new-uba/uba-sanctioned-projects .


    The information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1606561) Visitor Counter : 1066
    
    
    
    
    

3.