      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Affordable Test Kits for Diabetes
      Posted On: 13 MAR 2020 12:20PM by PIB Delhi


    As informed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), “SuChek” has been developed with financial assistance from ICMR, which is 100% indigenous glucometer suitable for diverse climatic conditions, affordable and validated as per International standards. Another indigenous device developed as a part of ICMR study for HbA1c testing is under validation.


    Public health and hospitals is a State subject. The Central Government, however, supplements the efforts of State Governments. The Government is implementing National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases and Stroke (NPCDCS), the objectives of which include awareness generation for prevention of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs), screening, early detection, management and referral to an appropriate level health facility. Under NPCDCS, testing, diagnosis and treatment facilities for Diabetes is provided through different levels of healthcare facilities. To tackle the challenge of NCDs including diabetes, 616 NCD Clinics at District level and 3,827 NCD Clinics at Community Health Centre level have been set up across the country under NPCDCS. The treatment is either free or highly subsidized for the poor and needy in Government hospitals. A population level initiative of prevention, control and screening for common NCDs (diabetes, hypertension and cancer viz. oral, breast and cervical cancer) has been rolled out in over 215 districts across the country. Under the initiative, frontline health workers such as Accredited Social Health Activists and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives are being leveraged to carry out screening and to generate awareness about the risk factors of NCDs including diabetes among the masses. Screening for common NCDs, including diabetes, is also an integral part of service delivery under Ayushman Bharat - Health and Wellness Centres.


    To leverage mobile technology, an application called mDiabetes has been launched for generating awareness, promoting adherence to treatment and inculcating healthy habits among the masses. Media campaigns are undertaken for creating awareness about risk factors of NCDs, including diabetes. Special media campaigns are organized every year on 14th November on the occasion of World Diabetes Day. Screening and awareness generation activities are also undertaken every year for diabetes, hypertension & common cancers (oral, breast and cervical) during India International Trade Fair at New Delhi.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606207) Visitor Counter : 689
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali