      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Imparting new technologies to farmers through electronic media
      Posted On: 13 MAR 2020 5:22PM by PIB Delhi


    DAC&FW is educating farmers through following use of electronic media as follows :-
    1) Kisan Suvidha mobile app facilitates dissemination of information to farmers on the critical parameters viz., Weather; Market Prices; Plant Protection; Input Dealers (Seed, Pesticide, Fertilizer) Farm Machinery; Soil Health Card; Cold Storages &Godowns, Veterinary Centres and Diagnostic Labs.
    
    2) Crop related advisories are regularly sent to the registered farmers through SMSs on mKisan Portal (www.mkisan.gov.in).


    3) The Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) has compiled more than 100 mobile apps developed by ICAR, State Agricultural Universities and KrishiVigyanKendras (KVKs) in the areas of crops, horticulture, veterinary, dairy, poultry, fisheries, natural resources management and integrated subjects.


    4)Awareness/ education is being created among farmers through various electronic mass media mediums like DD Kisan Channel, Doordarshan, All India Radio etc.
    
    5) Apart from the above, Social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, YouTube are being used to educate farmers, across the country.


    The Government is implementing the following schemes aimed at imparting training to farmers in the agriculture and allied sectors:-
    
    i) A Centrally Sponsored Scheme on ‘Support to State Extension Programmes for Extension Reforms’ popularly known as Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) Scheme is under implementation in 691 districts of 28 States & 5 UTs of the country. The extension activities under ATMA, inter-alia, include Farmers’ Training. During the year, 2018-19, 19.18 lakh farmers availed training benefits under ATMA.
    
    ii) Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) with its network of 717 KrishiVigyanKendras (KVKs) has mandate of technology assessment, demonstration and capacity development of farmers. KVKs are imparting training to farmers for getting higher agricultural production and income. During the year 2018-19, 13.51 lakh farmers were trained by KVKs in various thematic areas.
    
    iii) Four Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institutes (FMTTIs) located at Budni (MP), Hissar (Haryana), Ananthapur (AP) and BiswanathChariali (Assam) are engaged in imparting training to various categories of trainees including farmers, in the field of Farm Mechanization. During the year 2018-19, these Institutes have trained 9905 candidates.
    
    iv) National Food Security Mission (NFSM) is being implemented in identified districts of 28 States and 2 UTs viz. Ladakh and J&K of the country to increase the production and productivity of rice, wheat, pulses, coarse cereals and nutri- cereals (millets) through area expansion and productivity enhancement. During the year 2018-19, 3,42,188 number of farmers were trained.
    
    v) Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH), a Centrally Sponsored Scheme is being implemented for holistic growth of the horticulture sector covering fruits, vegetables, root and tuber crops, mushrooms, spices, flowers, aromatic plants, coconut, cashew, cocoa and bamboo. All States and UTs are covered under MIDH. During 2018-19, 1,91,086 number of farmers were trained.
    
    vi) In addition to the above, training of farmers is an inbuilt component under Sub-Mission on Plan Protection & Plant Quarantine. Farmer Field Schools are conducted for promoting Integrated Pest Management among farmers. During the year 2018-19, 712 FFSs were organized under the scheme.
    This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/PK/BA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1606306) Visitor Counter : 880