      Ministry of Education

      MHRD issues directions to UGC, AICTE, NTA, NIOS, CBSE , NCTE and all autonomous organisations under it for the postponement of all examinations till 31st March, 2020 as a precautionary measure in the wake of Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19)
      
      MHRD is taking all steps to ensure safety of students along with the maintenance of academic calendar. I appeal to all students, teachers and parents not to panic -Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'

      Posted On: 18 MAR 2020 11:30PM by PIB Delhi

    Ministry of HRD has issued directions to UGC, AICTE, NTA, NIOS, CBSE , NCTE and all autonomous organisations under the Ministry for the postponement of all the examinations till 31st March, 2020 as a precautionary measure in the wake of Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). These steps have been taken to ensure safety and security of students who are appearing in various examinations, as also that of their teachers and parents.


    Therefore following further precautionary measures are required to be taken by all educational institutions and examination boards under the Ministry of HRD.


    1. All ongoing examinations may be rescheduled after 31st March 2020,this would include CBSE NIOS as also University examinations.


    2. All evaluation work may be rescheduled after 31st March, this would include evaluation work of CBSE, NIOS as also University exams.


    3. Since JEE mains may require travel by examinees to different towns and the dates may clash with rescheduled CBSE and other board exams therefore, JEE mains should be rescheduled and new date of JEE mains will be announced on 31st March after reassessment of situation


    All educational institutions and examination boards have been requested to maintain regular communication with the students and teachers through electronic means and keep them fully informed so that there is no anxiety amongst the students, teacher and parents.


    All Institutions have also been requested to notify helpline numbers/emails which student can access for their queries.


    Keeping in view the health concerns of Students, I directed CBSE and NIOS to postpone exams and evaluation till 31st March 2020. I request all Students to follow the health advisory issued by @MoHFW_INDIA.@narendramodi@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan@PIB_India @DDNewslive

    — Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank (@DrRPNishank) March 18, 2020

    Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' has appealed to all the students, teachers and parents not to panic as MHRD is committed to ensure safety and security of students as also the maintenance of academic calendar and all possible steps will be taken in this regard.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607035) Visitor Counter : 1357
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Kannada