      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Proposals invited on COVID-19 & related respiratory viral infections
      
      Proposals may be submitted as per SERB-IRHPA format by 5 pm on Monday, the 30th March 2020, through the SERB online portal

      Posted On: 20 MAR 2020 12:30PM by PIB Delhi

    COVID-19 virus has spread rapidly throughout the world. Given the lack of an efficacious vaccine and lack of availability of suitable chemotherapeutic interventions, the global population has been hit hard to the current coronavirus outbreak.


    Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB), an autonomous institution of the Department of Science & Technology, invites proposals as part of special call under IRHPA ( Intensification of Research in High Priority Area) scheme specifically designed for COVID-19 and related respiratory viral infections to ramp up national R&D efforts for new antivirals, vaccines , and affordable diagnostics .


    Academic and research institutions have been encouraged to submit competitive proposals having a strong interdisciplinary component between chemists, biologists, virologists, immunologists, and clinicians, in the related areas and to focus on the development of affordable diagnostics, vaccines, antivirals, disease models and other R&D to study these infections.


    One of the participating institutions should have access to BSL-3 (Bio-safety level 3) and above facilities, along with the expertise of handling respiratory viruses as per WHO/Govt. of India protocols.


    DST-SERB encourages technical partnerships and collaborative know-how from biotech and pharmaceutical companies. SERB is committed for strategic investments to accelerate antiviral research.


    The Proposals may be submitted as per SERB-IRHPA format by 5 pm on Monday the 30 th March 2020, through the SERB online portal.


    The proposals may focus on some of the key themes such as-

     1. New or repurposed antivirals against valid viral targets; viricidal coatings; etc.
     2. Affordable diagnostics for symptomatic and asymptomatic respiratory viral infections
     3. Investigational vaccines against respiratory viruses
     4. Response of virus to temperature, humidity & UV radiation
     5. Development of disease models for respiratory viral infections
     6. Studies on immune response and immunity during respiratory viral infections
     7. Epidemiology of COVID-19 and other respiratory viral infections

    (For further details, please visit: http://www.serb.gov.in/home.php )


    *****


    SNC/KGS(DST)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607278) Visitor Counter : 763
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil
    
    
    

7.