      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      Depletion of Groundwater
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2020 5:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Dynamic Ground Water Resources of the country are being periodically assessed jointly by Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) and State Governments. As per the 2017 assessment, total Annual Ground Water Recharge in the country is 432 Billion Cubic Meter (BCM) and the Annual Extractable Ground Water Resource is 393 BCM.


    The Annual Ground Water Extraction for all uses is 249 BCM, out of which, 221 BCM (89%) utilized for irrigation purposes.


    Ground water levels in various parts of the Country are declining because of continuous withdrawal necessitated by increased demand of fresh water for various uses, vagaries of rainfall, increased population, industrialization & urbanization etc. Depleting water table in some areas may have some effect on irrigation activities, however, Government has initiated a number of measures for supply side and demand side management to improve the water table in water stressed areas.


    Water being a State subject, initiatives on sustainable ground water management is primarily States’ responsibility. A number of States have done notable work in the field of water management/conservation. Of these, mention can be made of ‘Mukhyamantri Jal Swavlamban Abhiyan’ in Rajasthan, ‘Jalyukt Shibar’ in Maharashtra, ‘Sujalam Sufalam Abhiyan’ in Gujarat, ‘Mission Kakatiya’ in Telangana, ‘Neeru Chettu’ in Andhra Pradesh, ‘Jal Jeevan Hariyali’ in Bihar among others


    Government of India has launched the Jal Shakti Abhiyan which is a time bound campaign with a mission mode approach intended to improve water availability including ground water conditions in the water stressed blocks. The five important water conservation interventions are- water conservation and rainwater harvesting, renovation of traditional and other water bodies/tanks, reuse, bore well recharge structures, watershed development and intensive afforestation.


    T he other important measures taken by the Central Government are given at the following URL: http:// mowr.gov.in/ sites/default/ files/ Steps _to_ control _water_ depletion_ Jun 2019.pdf.


    Central Government supports construction of water harvesting and conservation works primarily through Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana – Watershed Development Component (PMKSY-WDC).


    This information was given by the Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti & Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Rattan Lal Kataria in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    PK/sk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607163) Visitor Counter : 380