      Prime Minister's Office

      PM urges people not to panic and avoid unnecessary travels
      
      Follow the advise and instructions by doctors, says PM
      
      Appreciates IT professionals and Workers for providing seamless services to the fellow citizens

      Posted On: 21 MAR 2020 7:33PM by PIB Delhi

    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has urged people not to panic and avoid unnecessary travels. While asking everyone to listen to the advise given by doctors, PM said all those who have been told to stay in home quarantine should follow the instructions.


    In a series of tweets PM said, “Never forget - precautions not panic! It’s not only important to be home but also remain in the town/ city where you are. Unnecessary travels will not help you or others. In these times, every small effort on our part will leave a big impact”.


    This is the time we should all listen to the advise given by doctors and authorities. All those who have been told to stay in home quarantine, I urge you to please follow the instructions. This will protect you as well as your friends and family”.


    Appreciating the IT professionals and Workers for providing their services to fellow citizens, Prime Minister said their outstanding role in combating COVID-19 will be remembered for years to come.


    In a tweet PM said, “They are heroes. They’re phenomenal individuals whose outstanding role will be remembered for years to come”.


    Absolutely correct! India is extremely proud of our IT professionals who are working hard to provide seamless services to fellow citizens. This community of innovators and industrious professionals has a major role to play in combating COVID-19.” #IndiaFightsCorona


    This is the time we should all listen to the advise given by doctors and authorities.
    
    All those who have been told to stay in home quarantine, I urge you to please follow the instructions.
    
    This will protect you as well as your friends and family. #IndiaFightsCorona

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) March 21, 2020

    Never forget - precautions not panic!
    
    It’s not only important to be home but also remain in the town/ city where you are. Unnecessary travels will not help you or others.
    
    In these times, every small effort on our part will leave a big impact. #IndiaFightsCorona

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) March 21, 2020

    Absolutely correct!
    
    India is extremely proud of our IT professionals who are working hard to provide seamless services to fellow citizens. This community of innovators and industrious professionals has a major role to play in combating COVID-19. #IndiaFightsCorona https://t.co/UCooaUtbS2

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) March 21, 2020

    They are heroes.
    
    They’re phenomenal individuals whose outstanding role will be remembered for years to come. #IndiaFightsCorona https://t.co/pEtCbidNUl

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) March 21, 2020

    ***


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607532) Visitor Counter : 662
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Kannada , Malayalam