      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Government of India issues Orders prescribing lockdown for containment of COVID-19 Epidemic in the country
      Posted On: 24 MAR 2020 9:10PM by PIB Delhi


    The COVID-19 epidemic has affected many countries and the World Health Organisation has declared it ‘Pandemic’.


    Government of India (GOI) has been taking several proactive preventive and mitigating measures starting with progressive tightening of international travel, issue of advisories for the members of the public, setting up quarantine facilities, contact tracing of persons infected by the virus and various social distancing measures. Several advisories have been issued to States and Union Territories (UTs) for taking necessary measures to contain the spread of this virus. Government have temporarily suspended metro and rail services as well as domestic air traffic.


    The situation has been continuously reviewed at the level of the Prime Minister of India. The PM has addressed the Nation on the need for preventive measures and has also held meeting with all the Chief Ministers through video conference.


    Experts, keeping in view the global experiences of countries which have been successful in containing the spread of COVID-19 unlike some others where thousands of people died, have recommended that effective measures for social distancing should be taken to contain the spread of this pandemic


    While steps taken by State/UT Governments are in the right direction, lack of uniformity in the measures adopted as well as in their implementation, may not serve the objective of containing the spread of the virus. Considering the situation. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), chaired by Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, in exercise of the powers under section 6(2)(i) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, has issued an Order dated 24.03.2020, directing the Ministries/ Departments of Government of India, and the State/Union Territory Governments and State/ Union Territory Authorities to take effective measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the country.


    In compliance of the said Order of NDMA, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued an Order dated 24.03.2020 under Section 10(2)(l) of the Disaster Management Act, directing the Ministries/ Departments of Government of India, State/Union Territory Governments and State/ Union Territory Authorities to take effective measures for ensuring social distancing so as to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the country. The Order shall remain in force, in all parts of the country, for a period of 21 days with effect from 25.03.2020.


    The Ministries/ Departments of Government of India and State Governments/Union Territory Administrations, have been directed to ensure strict implementation of these Orders. The implementation of these measures will be monitored by MHA.


    Click here to see MHA Order


    Click here to see Guidelines


    *****


    VG/SNC/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607997) Visitor Counter : 51518
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Gujarati , Telugu