      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      CIPET to providing Skilling 5 Lakh persons and 5 Lakh industries in 2019-2024 period, against 3 Lakh each in previous 5 years: Shri. Gowda
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2020 3:27PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Chemicals & Fertilizers Shri DV Sadananda Gowda informed the Members of Consultative Committee of his ministry that Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology CIPET has made an ambitious plan of skilling of five Lakh persons as well as five Lakh Technology Support Service to the polymer industry during the period of 2019-24.


    During the period of 2014-19 skilling of 3.13 Lakh person and 3.26 Lakh Technology Support Service Was provided.


    He was speaking at the Parliamentary Consultative Committee meeting of the Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers held in New Delhi yesterday.


    Performance of CIPET and Institute of Pesticides Formulation Technology (IPFT) was considered in the meeting. The meeting was chaired by Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri D. V. Sadananda Gowda. MoS Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandavia was also present in the meeting.


    Shri Gowda stated that CIPET’s performance in the Technology Support Services is in increasing trend and it continues to excel in all the spheres of its activities viz. Designing, tooling, plastic processing and testing, inspection and quality control, etc.Over 84000 Technology Support Service assignments were rendered to the plastics and allied industries during 2018-19.


    Members of parliament Shri Rahul Ramesh Shehwale, Shri Sudhir Gupta, Smt Kanta Kardam and Shri Ramnath Thakur attended the meeting. Secretary Chemicals & petro Chemicals Shri. Raghvendra Rao and senior officers of petro Chemicals department were also present in the meeting. Members raised issued regarding CIPET & IPFT Performance and made serval suggestion for improving their performance.


    Minister said that the issues raised and observations made by the Hon’ble Members will be taken care of by the concerned officers.


    In a presentation by Director General CIPET, Member were informed that the outcome based vision plan of CIPET in the core domain of skill development has been formulated to meet the needs of the projected exponential growth of polymer industries in India. The vision plan includes Impact Skill Training (long Term-Short Term) to 500000 (Five Lakh) students during (2019-24), introduction of M.S/M.Tech programmes in the areas of Polymer/Plastics,introduction of new Skill Training in new subjects in the other areas of Petrochemical sector (rubber,Technical Textiles & Specially Chemicals) and certification for all CIPET Centres through Bureau of Indian Standards. Apart from this CIEPT has planned to give Five Lakhs Technical support services to the Industries in the next five years.Setting up of 3 Innovex Labs at CIEPT SARP in the emerging areas of Polymer Science &Technology is also included in the future plan.


    Director, IPFT in his presentation informed the members about the proposed five year Action plan of IPFT. He said that main objectives of this plan includes Development and production of the state-of-art user environment friendly pesticides formulations, promotion of efficient application technologies as per emerging demands,information dissemination of safe manufacturing practices,quality assurances and judicious use of pesticides,human resource development through specialized training in the field of pesticide science&technology.


    *****


    RCJ / RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607321) Visitor Counter : 343
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi