      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Demand and fulfillment of fertilizers
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2020 3:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The projected requirement (demand), availability and sales of fertilizers in the country during the last three years is placed as Annexure A.


    The following steps have been taken by Government to ensure availability and timely supply of fertilizers to farmers of the country: -


     1. Before the commencement of each cropping season, Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare (DAC&FW), in consultation with all the State Governments, assesses the requirement of fertilizers. After assessment of requirement, DAC&FW projects month-wise requirement of fertilizers.

     1. On the basis of month-wise & State-wise projection given by DAC&FW, Department of Fertilizers allocates sufficient/ adequate quantities of fertilizers to States by issuing monthly supply plan and continuously monitors the availability through following system:

     1. The movement of all major subsidized fertilizers is being monitored throughout the country by an on-line web based monitoring system called integrated Fertilizer Monitoring System (iFMS);

     1. The State Governments are regularly advised to coordinate with manufacturers and importers of fertilizers for streamlining the supplies through timely placement of indents for railway rakes through their state institutional agencies like Markfed etc.
     1. Regular Weekly Video Conference is conducted jointly by Department of Agriculture & Cooperation and Farmers Welfare (DAC&FW), Department of Fertilizers (DoF), and Ministry of Railways with State Agriculture Officials and corrective actions are taken to dispatch fertilizer as indicated by the State Governments.
     1. The gap between demand (requirement) and production (indigenous) is met through imports. The import for the season is also finalised well in advance to ensure timely availability.

    Thus, with the steps as indicated above, Department of Fertilizers ensures availability of fertilizers at the State level and the distribution to the farmers within the State is the responsibility of the respective State Government. Further, State Governments have been adequately empowered to ensure selling of fertilizers at MRP/ reasonable prices . The fertilizers supplied are as per the Fertilizer Control Order (FCO), 1985 standards in terms of quality.


    Click here to see the Annexure A


    This information was given in a written reply by Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers, Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda in Rajya Sabha today.


    ************


    RCJ/RKM/MI

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607329) Visitor Counter : 377
    
    
    
    
    

1.