      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Implementation of 'One Nation, One Ration Card' Scheme
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2020 4:26PM by PIB Delhi


    Under PDS reforms, a scheme on "Integrated Management of Public Distribution System (IM-PDS)" is being implemented w.e.f. April 2018 in all States/UTs. The main objective of the scheme is to introduce nation-wide portability of ration card holders under National Food Security Act, 2013 (NFSA), through ‘One Nation One Ration Card' system. This system enables the migratory ration card holders to lift their entitled food grains from any Fair Price Shop (FPS) of their choice in the country by using their existing/same ration card issued in their home States/ UTs after biometric authentication on electronic Point of Sale (ePoS) devices installed at the FPSs. So far, the facility of inter-State/national portability under One Nation One Ration Card plan has been made functional in 12 States. Further, integration of remaining States/ UTs depends on their readiness to implement the same.


    The Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS) is governed under the provisions of the National Food security Act, 2013 (NFSA); which is implemented in all States/ UTs. The NFSA provides coverage for about 81 crore persons to receive subsidised foodgrains through TPDS, which is about 2/3'd of the country's population as per census 2011. Presently, under NFSA, all States/ UTs collectively, have issued about a total of23 crore ration cards to nearly 80 crore beneficiaries.


    Further, TPDS is operated in joint responsibilities of central States/UT Govenments where in inter-alia the operational responsibilities of identification of eligible households/ beneficiaries under NFSA as per the criteria evolved by them, issuance of ration cards, etc' rests with the concerned State/UTs Governments. Therefore as and when any matter/issues, including request for new ration card is received in this Department, the same is forwarded to concerned States/UTs Government for appropriate action at their end.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution , Shri Ramvilas Paswan, in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/PK/BA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1607345) Visitor Counter : 1119