      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      MPLADS funds may be utilized for COVID-19
      Posted On: 24 MAR 2020 7:43PM by PIB Delhi


    As a part of Government’s efforts to contain spread of COVID – 19, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI) has taken several preventive measures. It issued a circular granting one-time dispensation for utilizing funds under the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) to address the challenges in the fight against COVID-19.This will facilitate Members of Parliament to recommend funds for purchase of equipments for Government Hospitals / Dispensaries for medical testing and screening of patients and also facilitate in setting up other related facilities in their respective constituencies. As per the amendments to MPLADS Guidelines, Members of Parliament can now utilize funds under MPLADS for the following:-


     1. Infra-Red thermometers (Non-contact) to enable doctors and medical personnel to record and track a person’s temperature.

     2. Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) Kits to keep the medical personnel well-protected and enable them to function efficiently by minimizing the risk of transmission.
     3. Thermal imaging scanners or cameras for railway stations, airports and other points of entry which allow detecting of temperature from a safe distance.
     4. CORONA testing kits approved by M/o Health and Family Welfare
     5. ICU Ventilator and Isolation/ Quarantine Wards within their approved facilities.
     6. Face masks, gloves and Sanitizers for medical personnel.
     7. Any other medical equipment recommended by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for prevention, control and treatment of COVID-19.

    The details of the relevant Circular can be accessed at:


    https://www.mplads.gov.in/MPLADS/UploadedFiles/COVID19_435.pdf


    2. In addition, while reviewing the emerging situation due to COVID-19 and to curb its spread in the country,the field work of ongoing nation-wide large-scale sample surveys of National Statistical Office (NSO) were suspended from 18 th March to 31 st March 2020.


    ****


    VRRK/VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607974) Visitor Counter : 797
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali
    
    
    

7.