      Ministry of Education

      Government of India has taken several measures for the promotion, publicity and conservation of Sanskrit language-HRD Minister
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2020 5:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Government of India has taken several measures for the promotion, publicity and conservation of Sanskrit language through Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan. The measures taken by the Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan, New Delhi for the purpose mentioned above is placed at below:


     1. Providing financial assistance to Adarsh Sanskrit Mahavidyalayas / Shodha Sansthans.

     2. Award of merit scholarships to student of Sanskrit Pathasala to College level.
     3. Financial assistance to NGOs / Higher Educational Institutions of Sanskrit for various Research Projects / Programmes.
     4. Retired eminent Sanskrit scholars are engaged under the Shastra Chudamani scheme for teaching.
     5. Sanskrit is also taught through Non-formal Sanskrit Education (NFSE) programme, by setting up Non-Formal Sanskrit learning centres, in reputed institutions like Indian Institutes Technology, Ayurveda institutions, Modern Colleges and Universities.
     6. Presidential awards for Sanskrit Language are awarded annually to 16 senior scholars and to 5 young scholars.
     7. Financial Assistance for Publication, Reprint of rare Sanskrit books.
     8. Ashtaadashi containing eighteen Projects for sustaining the growth of Sanskrit has been implemented.
     9. Development of Sanskrit Dictionary to school students.
    10. Development of E-content in Sanskrit language for online professional development programme for teachers at secondary stage.
    11. 21-day refresher course for Sanskrit teachers of Andaman and Nicobar Islands at Upper primary stage.
    12. Development of Sanskrit workbook “Abhyasavan Bhava” at Secondary stage.
    13. Development of various e-contents for teachers and students
    14. Ongoing project: Development of compendium of ancient Indian education thoughts in Sanskrit.

    This information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607189) Visitor Counter : 333
    
    
    
    
    

14.