      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      EPFO advises Beneficiaries to avail Online Services to contain spreading of COVID-19
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2020 3:42PM by PIB Delhi


    In view of Government of India guidelines to contain spreading of COVID-19, Employees’ Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) advises it members, pensioners and employers to avail various online services offered by EPFO, from the comfort of their homes, and to avoid visiting EPFO offices.


    Most of the services of EPFO are available online. An employee can generate his/her own Universal Account Number (UAN), activate his/her UAN and seed it with Aadhaar, PAN, Bank Account and mobile number (KYC seeding). Employee can also make nominations, view balance in the passbook, update his/her date of exit, transfer his/her account from unexempted to exempted establishment and vice-versa. Employees have been further empowered to raise claims online for Provident Fund advances or final withdrawal; pension or Insurance benefits (EDLI) and receive payment of PF/Pension/Insurance benefits directly in his/her bank account.


    Similarly, a pensioner can download his/her Pension Payment Order (PPO) or preserve it in Digilocker; know his PPO number with the help of his/her bank account number or UAN and view passbook. Pensioners can also update Jeevan Praman (Digital Life Certificate) online any time of the year.


    Employers can register their establishments under EPF & MP Act, 1952 and obtain establishment ID; make payment of EPF and allied dues through RTGS/NEFT and submit Electronic Challan cum Return (ECR). Employers have also been facilitated to avail e-inspections of their establishments.


    In case employees, employers and pensioners have any grievance they can get them resolved online through EPFigms portal. The details of these services and facilities are available at www.epfindia.gov.in .


    These facilities are available also on UMANG App. of Government of India, so one can access these online services from his/her mobile too on UMANG App.


    ****


    RCJ/SKP/JK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607327) Visitor Counter : 627
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Gujarati