      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Impact of Inflation on Poor People
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2020 4:30PM by PIB Delhi


    As per Economic Survey 2019-20, at the All-India level, for a vegetarian thali, an industrial worker has to spend around 50 per cent of his/her daily wage in 2019-20 (April-October) to afford two thalis for a household of five individuals. For a non- vegetarian thali, the share of wages he/she has to spend to afford two thalis for a household of five individuals is around 79 per cent in 2019-20 (April-October).
    
    The workers in the organised sectors are entitled for the social security benefits as per Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 or Employee’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provident Act, 1952 as applicable to them.
    The Central Government also provides social security benefits to the workers in the unorganized Sector including rural and agricultural labourers, the Government has enacted the Unorganized Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008. This Act stipulates formulation of suitable welfare schemes for unorganized workers on matters relating to: (i) life and disability cover, (ii) health and maternity benefits, (ii) old age protection and (iv) any other benefit as may be determined by the Central Government. Life and disability cover is provided through Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) to the unorganized workers depending upon their eligibility. Government of India and State Governments pay the annual premium in equal share. The health and maternity benefits are addressed through Ayushman Bharat Scheme. For old age protection in the form of monthly pension, Government of India has launched Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maandhan (PM-SYM). Under the Scheme, minimum assured monthly pension of Rs. 3000/- will be provided to the unorganized workers after attaining the age of 60 years. Prescribed monthly contribution is payable by the beneficiary and equal matching contribution is paid by the Central Government.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution , Shri Ramvilas Paswan, in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/PK/BA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1607351) Visitor Counter : 517
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu