      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Cabinet Secretary and PS to Hon. Prime Minister review status, management and containment of COVID-19
      Posted On: 22 MAR 2020 6:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Cabinet Secretary and the Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister reviewed the status, actions taken and preparedness regarding management and containment of COVID-19 in a high level with Chief Secretaries of States through a video conference, here today. The increase in the number of confirmed cases during the last few days was discussed. The Central Government impressed upon the States the need for urgent and effective interventions.


    After detailed discussions, the following decisions were taken:

     1. State Governments will issue orders allowing only essential services to operate in districts with confirmed COVID-19 cases. The focus should be on closure of all activities except essential services such as hospitals, telecom, medicine shops, provision stores etc.
     2. Establishments/factories engaged in manufacturing and distribution of essential commodities like medicines, vaccines, sanitizers, masks, medical devices, their ancillaries and support services etc., should be exempt from these restrictions.
     3. State Governments may expand the list depending on their assessment of the situation.
     4. All train services suspended till 31 st March 2020 including sub urban rail services.
     5. Good trains may continue to operate for facilitating availability of essential commodities.
     6. All metro rail services suspended till 31 st March 2020.
     7. Interstate passenger transport also to be suspended till 31st Mar 2020.
     8. Transport services may operate at mere skeletal level
     9. These measures are temporary but extremely vital to break the chain of transmission.
    10. States were also requested to ensure that while such measures are being taken, necessary steps to minimize discomfort to the poor and disadvantaged sections of the society may be ensured.
    11. States to request industries, establishments etc., to allow their employees to work from home and provide remuneration to them during this period.
    12. Central Government has already asked Labour Ministry and Ministry of Corporate Affairs to issue necessary instructions to this effect.
    13. States were further asked to ramp up the readiness to manage the positive cases in health facilities.
    14. States to assess the availability of medical services including quarantine and scale them up to meet all possible contingencies.
    15. States were asked to have earmarked facilities fully dedicated to manage the COVID-19 cases only.
    16. Each State was requested to identify and ensure that such hospitals are equipped to manage the COVID 19 cases.

    Following is the list of the districts which have reported confirmed COVID-19 cases:

                            
State             District  
                            
                            
                            
Andhra Pradesh    Prakasam  
                            
                            
                
Vijaywada       
                
                
                
Vizag           
                
                
                            
Chandigarh        Chandigarh
                            
                            
                            
Chhattisgarh      Raipur    
                            
                            
                            
Delhi             Central   
                            
                            
                
East Delhi      
                
                
                
North Delhi     
                
                
                
North West Delhi
                
                
                
North East Delhi
                
                
                
South Delhi     
                
                
                
West Delhi      
                
                
                            
Gujrat            Kutchh    
                            
                            
                
Rajkot          
                
                
                
Gandhinagar     
                
                
                
Surat           
                
                
                
Vadodara        
                
                
                
Ahmedabad       
                
                
                            
Haryana           Faridabad 
                            
                            
                
Sonepat         
                
                
                
Panchkula       
                
                
                
Panipat         
                
                
                
Gurugram        
                
                
                            
Himachal Pradesh  Kangra    
                            
                            
                            
UT of J&K         Srinagar  
                            
                            
                
Jammu           
                
                
                            
Karnataka         Bangalore 
                            
                            
                
Chikkaballapura 
                
                
                
Mysore          
                
                
                
Kodagu          
                
                
                
Kalaburgi       
                
                
                            
Kerala            Alappuzha 
                            
                            
                
Ernakulam       
                
                
                
Iduki           
                
                
                
Kannur          
                
                
                
Kasargod        
                
                
                
Kottayam        
                
                
                
Mallapuram      
                
                
                
Pathanamthitta  
                
                
                
Thiruvanthpuram 
                
                
                
Thrissur        
                
                
                            
UT of Ladakh      Kargil    
                            
                            
                
Leh             
                
                
                            
MP                Jabalpur  
                            
                            
                            
Maharashtra       Ahmednagar
                            
                            

    *****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607625) Visitor Counter : 28553
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Kannada
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
16.