      Ministry of Railways

      Quality of food in long distance trains
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2020 5:38PM by PIB Delhi


    It is the continuous endeavour of Indian Railways to provide quality and hygienic food to passengers in all the trains.


    Indian Railways have robust mechanism of receiving feedback, suggestions and grievances from the passengers. Appropriate and prompt corrective actions are taken by Railways to address these concerns. During 2019-20 (01.04.2019–31.01.2020), a total of 1998 complaints pertaining to quality of food in trains have been received out of which 641 complaints pertain to Rajdhani Express trains which is lower than 677 complaints received during the corresponding period of 2018-19.


    Various steps taken by Indian Railways to provide quality and hygienic food to passengers are as follows:

     1. 46 Kitchens have been upgraded by IRCTC to improve quality and hygiene of food.
     2. Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) Cameras have been installed in Kitchens to monitor Kitchen activities on real-time basis. Live streaming of the kitchens has been made available for passengers through IRCTC website as well as Rail Drishti . This enables close and live monitoring of the activities in the kitchens both by officials and the public . This facility is presently available in 28 upgraded Kitchens.
     3. IRCTC has enabled Quick Response (QR) codes to be pasted on food casseroles at 29 Kitchens which enable passengers to get the direct link to CCTV images of the kitchen where food is prepared and packed. Details of the contents and quantities of the meals and date of packaging can also be seen by the passenger.
     4. Ensuring use of approved PAD items, branded premium quality raw material and ingredients for production of food.
     5. Variety in menu is being ensured through introduction of low-cost Snack Meals of regional cuisine/flavour.
     1. Branded food providers have been roped in to provide e-catering services in trains through advance booking.
     2. Ready to Eat (RTE) Meals for variety and to meet emergent requirements have been introduced.
     3. Certification from Designated Food Safety Officers of each Kitchen Unit has been made mandatory.
     4. Food Safety Supervisors of IRCTC have been deployed at Kitchen Units.
     5. Customer satisfaction surveys are conducted through Third Party Agencies.
     6. Third Party Audits are mandated in the catering Policy and are being carried out by NABCB (National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies) accredited agencies for examination of quality of food, hygiene and cleanliness in Pantry Cars and Kitchen Units.
     7. Regular and surprise inspections are conducted by Railway officials including Food Safety Officers.
     8. A robust system for passenger feedback and complaints exists for redressal through dedicated centralized Catering Service Monitoring Cell (CSMC) toll free number 1800-111-321, Rail Madad, Twitter handle, CPGRAMS, E-Mail and SMS based complaints.

    This press release is based on information given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    DJN/SG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607381) Visitor Counter : 168
    
    
    
    
    

8.