      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Ministry of Tribal Affairs writes to State Governments for rescheduling of holidays in EMRS/EMDBS in view of contingent health situation due to COVID-19
      Posted On: 26 MAR 2020 6:02PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tribal Affairs has written to Tribal Development Departments of all States with Eklavya Model Residential Schools for rescheduling of Holidays in Eklavya Model Residential Schools (EMRS) and Eklavya Model Day Boarding Schools (EMDBS) funded by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs. In a letter written to Principal Secretary/Secretary-in-charge of Tribal Development Department of these States, the Ministry has said that in view of prevailing sensitive health conditions affecting community health due to Covid-19 (Corona Virus), it has been seen that at various places local administration have issued directions to take preventive measures including declaration of vacations to avoid spreading of infection. In certain cases, the directions issued permits completion of the scheduled annual examinations.


    In view of the contingent situation, the Ministry of Tribal Affairs has issued the following instructions in respect of the Eklavya Model Residential Schools for rescheduling of Holidays in Eklavya Model Residential Schools (EMRS) and Eklavya Model Day Boarding Schools (EMDBS) funded by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs :

      * Summer Holidays to be advanced as a special case and schools to remain shut from 21.03.2020 till 25.05.2020 (65 days) or till further orders whichever is earlier.
      * Till such time, entry of outsiders into the campus is completely banned.
      * Students appearing in Board Examinations and attending special classes may be retained with due care in the campus. Such students appearing in Board examinations may be sent home soon after completion of respective papers.
      * Special drive may be taken to sanitize the school campus including the academic block, hostels and other common areas.

    Apart from the above, the following may also be ensured :

     1. Order from local authorities on the issue may be strictly followed.
     2. Teachers can avail the holidays after completion of declaration of results. Results may be communicated to the students by post and sms.
     3. General activities planned for vacations shall be carried out during the vacation period to ensure that the campus is made ready for starting the new session.
     4. Admission of students in Class VI and lateral entry in classes IX and XI shall also be completed in all respects during this period before the school reopens.

    *****


    NB/SK/MoTA/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1608359) Visitor Counter : 519
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Gujarati , Malayalam
    
    
    

4.