      Prime Minister's Office

      Appeal to generously donate to ‘Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund)’
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2020 4:36PM by PIB Delhi


    The pandemic of COVID-19 has engulfed the entire world and has posed serious challenges for the health and economic security of millions of people worldwide. In India too, the spread of coronavirus has been alarming and is posing severe health and economic ramifications for our country. The Prime Minister’s office has been receiving spontaneous and innumerable requests for making generous donations to support the government in the wake of this emergency.


    Distress situations, whether natural or otherwise, demand expeditious and collective action for alleviating the suffering of those affected, mitigation/control of damage to infrastructure and capacities etc. Therefore, building capacities for quick emergency response and effective community resilience has to be done in tandem with infrastructure and institutional capacity reconstruction/enhancement. Use of new technology and advance research findings also become an inseparable element of such concerted action.


    Keeping in mind the need for having a dedicated national fund with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and to provide relief to the affected, a public charitable trust under the name of ‘Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund’ (PM CARES Fund) ’ has been set up. Prime Minister is the Chairman of this trust and its Members include Defence Minister, Home Minister and Finance Minister.


    PM Narendra Modi has always believed and shown in actions that public participation is the most effective way to mitigate any issue and this is yet another example. This fund will enable micro-donations as a result of which a large number of people will be able to contribute with smallest of denominations.


    Citizens and organisations can go to the website pmindia.gov.in and donate to PM CARES Fund using following details :


    Name of the Account : PM CARES


    Account Number : 2121PM20202


    IFSC Code : SBIN0000691


    SWIFT Code : SBININBB104


    Name of Bank & Branch : State Bank of India, New Delhi Main Branch


    UPI ID : pmcares@sbi


    Following modes of payments are available on the website pmindia.gov.in -

     1. Debit Cards and Credit Cards
     2. Internet Banking
     3. UPI (BHIM, PhonePe, Amazon Pay, Google Pay, PayTM, Mobikwik, etc.)
     4. RTGS/NEFT

    Donations to this fund will be exempted from income tax under section 80(G).


    ******


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1608851) Visitor Counter : 3249
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati , Telugu , Tamil , Hindi , Assamese , Punjabi , Kannada , Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Odia , Malayalam
    
    
    

4.