      Prime Minister's Office

      PM addresses 10th Episode of ‘Mann Ki Baat 2.0’
      
      Appeals to citizens to adhere to lockdown
      Posted On: 29 MAR 2020 2:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Addressing the 10th Episode of ‘Mann Ki Baat 2.0’, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi apologized for taking tough decisions, reiterated that the battle against COVID 19 required some tough decisions.


    He said it was important to keep the people of India safe and expressed confidence that together India will defeat COVID-19.


    “The Lockdown will keep the people as well as their families safe and those who are not following the rule of isolation will be in trouble” he cautioned.


    Sharing his thoughts in Mann Ki Baat today, the Prime Minister said he feels sorry for the hardships being faced by all, especially the poor owing to the lockdown. He empathized with the people and said in order to battle Corona in a country of 130 crore people such as India, there was no other option. He added that such strong measures were resorted to because it was a situation of life or death, looking at what the world was going through.


    Quoting an adage “Evam Evam Vikar, api tarunha Saadhyate Sukham” meaning, “an illness and its scourge should be nipped in the bud itself,” he stressed later on, when it becomes incurable, treatment is very difficult. He said the Coronavirus has incarcerated the world. PM said, “It is posing a challenge to Knowledge, science, the rich and the poor, the strong and the weak alike. It is not confined to any nation's borders, nor does it make distinction of region or season.”


    The Prime Minister called for humankind to rise unitedly in the resolve to exterminate it since this virus had obstinately picked up the gauntlet to annihilate the human race. He clarified that complying with the lockdown is not for helping others but a means to protect oneself. He urged the people to protect oneself and their family for the next many days and abide by the Lakshman Rekha.


    The Prime Minister said that some people are violating the lockdown since they are not trying to understand the gravity of the matter. He appealed to them, to comply with the lockdown rule, or else it will be difficult to save ourselves from the scourge of the Coronavirus. Quoting an adage “Aarogyam Param Bhagyam, Swasthyam Sarwaarth Sadhanam” - which means good health is the greatest fortune, he stressed, Health is the only way to happiness in the world.


    ***


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1608985) Visitor Counter : 641
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Telugu , Tamil , Hindi , Assamese , Kannada , Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati , Odia , Malayalam