      Prime Minister's Office

      PM interacts with AYUSH practitioners
      
      AYUSH sector has a long tradition of keeping the nation healthy; has an important role to play in checking the spread of COVID-19: PM
      
      Important to counter and fact-check unsubstantiated claims of AYUSH having cure for the disease: PM
      
      Utilize the platform of telemedicine to reach out to public and generate constant awareness: PM
      
      PM praises efforts of AYUSH Ministry to promote #YogaAtHome

      Posted On: 28 MAR 2020 1:16PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today interacted with AYUSH sector practitioners via video conference.


    Prime Minister said that the AYUSH sector has a long tradition of keeping the nation healthy and its importance has increased manifold in the ongoing efforts to tackle COVID-19. Prime Minister observed that their network is spread through the length and breadth of the country, so it's imperative for them to utilize this network, while working according to WHO guidelines, to spread the message of good practises which need to be adopted in the efforts to control the spread of the virus. He also praised the ongoing efforts of AYUSH Ministry in promoting #YogaAtHome to de-stress the mind and strengthen the body during this difficult phase.


    Prime Minister underlined the importance of countering and fact checking unsubstantiated claims of AYUSH having cure for the disease, adding that AYUSH scientists, ICMR, CSIR and other research organizations must come together for evidence based research. He said that the country must be ready to use the entire healthcare workforce to meet the challenge, and if the need so arises, help from private doctors connected with AYUSH may be sought by the government.


    Prime Minister suggested that AYUSH medicine producers could utilize their resources towards producing essential items like sanitizers which are in high demand these days. He exhorted them to utilize the platform of telemedicine to reach out to the public and generate constant awareness to fight the pandemic. He also highlighted the importance of enforcing social distancing with full vigour to counter the spread of the pandemic.


    The AYUSH practitioners lauded the Prime Minister for leading the country’s fight against COVID-19. They talked about the impact of these traditional practises towards boosting immunity. They also mentioned their efforts to conduct research for symptomatic treatment, and expressed desire to serve the nation during this time of crisis.


    Prime Minister said that it is important to create awareness about India’s traditional medicines and medical practises all over the world. He thanked the AYUSH practitioners for constantly striving to serve the people and once again highlighted the important role they have to play in India's fight against COVID-19.


    Union Minister for AYUSH, Cabinet Secretary and Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH also participated in the interaction.


    ******


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1608774) Visitor Counter : 2691
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam