      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship readies all NSTIs to be used as quarantine centres for COVID-19
      
      MSDE employees to contribute at least one day salary to OM cares Fund

      Posted On: 29 MAR 2020 6:40PM by PIB Delhi

    As a part of the Government’s preparedness to fight the spread of the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) has decided to make available all National Skill Training Institutes (NSTIs) and their hostels across the country for conversion into quarantine/ isolation facilities. The decision was taken by the Ministry to align its efforts with the Centre in preparedness for the pandemic that has led to a nationwide lockdown for 3 weeks to encourage social distancing among people.


    MSDE has also provided the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare a list of around one lakh personnel who have been trained in healthcare skills through various programmes under the Skill India Mission. Trained in various job roles, these candidates will boost the efforts to contain the spread, and treatment and care of infected people in the new quarantine/ isolation/ hospital facilities being set up.


    In addition, a list of 2000 health care trainers and more than 500 health care assessors has also been shared with MoHFW.


    Further, the personnel of the Ministry have also decided to contribute at least minimum one day salary to the PM CARES fund, to aid the Government’s efforts to fight the corona virus pandemic.


    Dr. MahendraNathPandey, Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurshiphassaid that the addition of NSTIs will help district and state administrations in treating those infected by the virus by providing an alternative for hospitals and health centres. “In view of the global emergency caused by the unprecedented spread of the Novel Coronavirus, the Skill Development Ministry will provide every possible support to the Central Government in fighting this pandemic. We have requested all Regional Directors of NSTIs to fully cooperate with State Government authorities to help them meet the requirement of facilities as and when it arises.In addition, the State Governments can also use the premises of ITIs for the same.”


    Run by the Directorate General of Training, NSTIs are premier institutes that provides training in specialised skills across its spread of training centers and hostels in the country. The nearly one lakh candidates who will aid in emergency and isolation work in the battle against COVID-19 have been trained in various job roles including:

                                                                       
PMKVY Health Trained: 92,040  Emergency Medical Technician (Basic): 989
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Radiology: 373                Home Health Aid: 1644                    
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
X-Ray Technician: 299         General Duty Assistant: 10,172           
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Frontline Health Worker: 530  Phlebotomy Technician: 334               
                                                                       
                                                                       

    Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship focusses on enhancing employability of skills. Since its inception, MSDE has undertaken significant initiatives and reforms in terms of formalizing the policy, framework and standards; launching of new programs and schemes; creating new infrastructure and upgrading the existing institutions; partnering with States; engaging with industries and building societal acceptance and aspirations for skills. The Ministry aims to bridge the gap between demand and supply of skilled manpower to build new skills and innovation not only for existing jobs but also for jobs that are to be created. Till date, more than three crore people have been trained under Skill India. Under its flagship programme, PradhanMantriKaushalVikasYojana (PMKVY) 2016-2020, the Ministry has trained more than 73 lakh candidates so far.


    ******


    YB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1609075) Visitor Counter : 424
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada