      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      No Shortage of Medicines to combat Covid-19 outbreak;
      
      Department of Pharmaceuticals is regularly monitoring distribution and addressing issues of availability, supply & local issues with the help of other Departments and States/UTs

      Posted On: 31 MAR 2020 5:10PM by PIB Delhi

    1. Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers, Government of India is continuously monitoring distribution and addressing issues of availability, supply & local related issues of medicines with the help of other Departments and States/UTs. A Central control room [011-23389840] has been set up in the Department, which is working from 8 am to 6 pm. National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority(NPPA) has set up another control room [Helpline No. 1800111255], which functions round the clock. The Control rooms deals with issues related to queries/complaints and messages dealing with COVID-19 outbreak as well as coordination of transport and other logistic services related to drugs and medical devices.


    2. The Department of Pharmaceuticals is working in close coordination with line departments like Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Customs authorities, Central and State Drug Controllers, State Governments/UTs and various Drugs and Medical Device Associations.


    3. ​The Department of Pharmaceuticals is continuously monitoring the production of medicines since the outbreak of Coronavirus in China. After the lockdown, the Department is facilitating the industry by addressing various issues arising from time to time as quickly as possible on top priority in consultation with various authorities including State/ UT governments. In case any issue pertaining to other Ministries/Departments comes or are brought to DoPs attention, same is being flagged to the authorities concerned as a part of inter-departmental coordination and through Empowered Groups. NPPA has directed manufacturers to produce and maintain sufficient stocks of essential drugs at any point of time. All efforts are made to ensure production of drugs and medical devices during the period of lockdown.


    4. Further, the Department is extensively using digital platforms forming WhatsApp groups/email systems and using video conferencing facilities to ensure prompt action at various levels


    *****


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1609588) Visitor Counter : 803
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Kannada , Malayalam