      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Cargo Air Flights will be used exclusively for transporting medical equipment and emergency goods to North Eastern States- Dr. Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 29 MAR 2020 8:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for DoNER Dr Jitendra Singh has disclosed that Cargo Air Flights will be used exclusively for transporting medical equipment and emergency goods, besides other essential items. to North Eastern States, in the wake of Lockdown situation.


    The Ministry of Civil Aviation for approved the initiative taken by the airports of the region. This will go a long way in reassuring the people of the North Eastern Region that even at this hour of trial, they are receiving as much attention as any other part of the country.


    It has been intimated that the contact details and road map for the Cargo operation will be provided soon. The Directors of the airports of the region have been asked to inform about their requirements through Twitter.


    Dr Jitendra Singh noted that Prime Minister Sh Narendra Modi has always placed the welfare of the North Eastern Region highest on the priority. It was primarily because of his personal outreach that Northeast has undergone revolutionary transformation over the last six years. And, the decision to operate Cargo flights for Northeast is only a reiteration of the fact that the concern for Northeast is close to the Prime Minister Sh Modi’s heart even at this crucial time.


    Pertinent to mention that only three days back, the Ministry of DoNER and North Eastern Council allocated Rs. 25 crore additional fund, over and above the already allocated funds by the DoNER, the NEC as well other Ministries of Government of India. This additional amount is specifically meant to assist in Corona related activities and gap-funding, he added.


    *****


    VG/SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1609145) Visitor Counter : 396
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Tamil , Telugu