      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways to run Special Parcel Trains for carriage of essential items in small parcel sizes during the complete lockdown in fight against COVID-19
      
      Parcel trains are expected to be of great utility to E Commerce Companies
      
      Parcel Trains very useful for mass quick transportation across the nation for movement of medicines, medical equipments, masks, food items, etc
      
      Total 8 Parcel Special Trains run by Railways since 22.03.2020; In addition, running of Parcel specials is further being planned on 20 routes
      
      Posted On: 29 MAR 2020 5:20PM by PIB Delhi


        To ensure an uninterrupted and seamless supply chain of goods and essential commodities in the wake of COVID-19, Indian Railways is offering its unhindered services of Parcel Trains for nationwide transportation of essential commodities and other goods required to meet the needs of citizens of the nation.


        Transportation of essential items like medical supplies, medical equipment, food, etc in small parcel sizes is going to be very important during the lockdown in the wake of COVID19. In order to fill in this vital need, Indian Railways has made railway parcel vans available for quick mass transportation across the nation for the needy E Commerce entities and other customers including State governments to transport such goods. It may be noted that Ministry of Home Affairs has already removed the restrictions on movement of goods and commodities in the country during the lock down period. Provision of Parcel trains and rapid transportation of goods will further bolster the efficiency of supply chains. The decision to run Special Parcel Trains will help in movement of small quantities as well of essential items viz. Dairy Products, Medical Equipments and Medicines, Groceries, Edible oil and other necessary items etc.


        Indian Railways is already transporting essential commodities to different parts of the country through freight trains. While these freight operations of Railways are meeting the needs of bulk transportation of essential goods like foodgrains, edible oil, salt, sugar, coal, cement, milk, vegetables & fruits etc, there are various items that need to be delivered in comparatively smaller quantities. After flights, Railways remain the fastest mode of inter state transportation for such goods .


        Different Zones of Indian Railways are working out their own plans for running these Parcel Trains. They are reaching out prospective clients through various modes of communication including advertisements.


        Details of Parcel Special Trains being run by some zones are as follows:


        Total 8 Parcel specials Trains run by Railways since 22.03.2020. In addition, running of Parcel specials is further being planned on 20 routes.


        Northern Railway Parcel Special Trains shall run on the following routes:


        1. New Delhi - Guwahati


        2. New Delhi - Mumbai Central


        3. New Delhi - Kalyan


        4. New Delhi - Howrah


        5. Chandigarh - Jaipur


        6. Moga - Chhangsari Parcel Rcp.


        Southern Railway Parcel Special Trains shall run on the following routes:


        1. Coimbatore - Patel Nagar (Delhi region) - Coimbatore


        2. Coimbatore - Rajkot- Coimbatore


        3. Coimbatore - Jaipur- Coimbatore


        4. Salem - Batinda


        Central Railway Parcel Special Trains shall run on the following routes:


        1. Kalyan - New Delhi


        2. Nashik - New Delhi


        3. Kalyan - Santraghachi


        4. Kalyan - Guwahati.


        South Eastern Railway Parcel Special Trains shall run on the following routes:


        1. Sankrail Goods Terminal Yard (SGTY)/Shalimar (SHM) to Kalyan (KYN)


        2. Sankrail Goods Terminal Yard (SGTY)/Shalimar (SHM) to New Guwahati Goods Shed (NGC)


        3. Sankrail Goods Terminal Yard(SGTY)/Shalimar(SHM) to Bengaluru (SBC)


        South East Central Railway Parcel Special Trains shall run on the following routes:


        Movement will be by parcel trains point to point depending upon demand and small space may also be provided in parcel trains planned for running from Mumbai and Kolkata through SECR route.


        Industrial houses, companies, any interested groups, organizations, individuals may avail of these services. Interested parties may approach the Railway Parcel Offices and Divisions for registration. Apart from the above, any other Origin - Destination points are also welcome for inquiry and registration. The services will be run as per extant rules and on payment of parcel/freight charges.


        #IndiaFightsCorona


        ****


        SG/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1609042) Visitor Counter : 1299
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada