      Ministry of Culture

      PRATIBANDHIT SAHITYA MEIN SWATANTRATA SANGRAM inaugurated by Dr. Mahesh Sharma in New Delhi today
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2018 9:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Culture (Independent Charge) and Minister of State for Environment Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma inaugurated an exhibition entitled ‘Prathibandhit Sahitya mein Swatantrata Sangram’ (Freedom Movement through Proscribed Literature) in the premises of National Archives of India, in New Delhi today.


    The Exhibition is based on the unique collection of proscribed literature in its possession. This exhibition of proscribed literature is from vast collection of poetry and prose that portrays the nationalistic fervour prevalent in the days of freedom struggle. These were written in almost all the Indian languages such as Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Marathi, Oriya, Punjabi, Sindhi, Tamil, Telugu Urdu, Assamese etc. which included speeches, articles, essays etc. and published in different parts of the country. There are about 55 such proscribed literatures displayed in the Exhibition.


    Each and every thought of the poetry conveyed the spirit of nationalism that inspired the people of this country, determined to attain freedom from the clutches of the British. The publication and circulation of these literature among the masses was banned by the colonial government judging them ‘dangerous’ to the ‘security’ of the country. This literature is now a part of our national heritage.


    The visitors to this exhibition can also glance through these proscribed publications in digital flip books.


    The exhibition is an attempt to sensitize the young generations of the sacrifices and contributions of these martyrs in our freedom struggle and to inculcate the spirit of patriotism in them.


    The Exhibition will remain open for public viewing till 9 September 2018 from 10.00 am to 5.30 pm.


    The National Archives of India is an Attached Office under the Ministry of Culture. It was established on 11 March 1891 at Kolkata(Calcutta) as the Imperial Record Department. Following the transfer of the capital from Calcutta to Delhi in 1911, the present building of the National Archives of India was constructed in 1926 which was designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens. The transfer of all records from Calcutta to New Delhi was completed in 1937. There are over 50 lakhs files, documents presently in the holdings in the National Archives of India. Out of which the reference media of about 27 lakhs files, records are available in the search portal of the Department Abhilekh Patal.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542781) Visitor Counter : 653
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu