      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways decides to post young Station Directors at A1 Category Stations.
      Posted On: 20 SEP 2017 6:20PM by PIB Chennai


    Under the direction of the Minister of Railways, Shri Piyush Goyal, Railway administration has decided to post young brilliant & dynamic officers to man the post of Station Directors at major Railway Stations. The officers will be chosen from across different operational services of Railways after due screening & scrutiny. They will be imparted special orientation training focussing on coordination and public dealing. Ministry has earlier created the post of Station Directors at A1 Category stations numbering 75.


    Station Directors will ensure that the stations function as excellence centers for the customers with the additional objective to ensure vigilant and sensitive customer service and also superior commercial sense. The functions of the Station Directors and their teams will be as follows : -


    ● Prompt, courteous and hassle-free service to customers.


    ● Proper cleanliness and hygiene at the station and stationary trains


    ● Efficient working of booking and reservation office


    ● Punctuality of trains at the station, timely placement and withdrawal of rakes at platforms of the station


    ● Proper functioning, upkeep/repairs of all passenger amenities at the station.


    ● Upkeep of passenger enquiry system, display board etc.


    ● Ensuring efficient, transparent and customer oriented working of Parcel Office


    ● Monitoring the service of catering/vending stall at the station


    ● Prompt grievance redressal


    ● Security of passengers


    ● Any other items identified for making station an excellent center for customer


    The Station Directors shall be supported by cross functional team in suitable manner to undertake these functions effectively. Station Directors shall also be associated in the decision making process related to proposals and execution of ‘traffic facility’ and passenger amenities’ works at that particular stations. They will also be actively involved in the process of raising revenue from ‘non fare box’ like commercial advertisement, etc. at that station. For all this, the Station Directors will seek the assistance of officers/superiors of the respective Departments, as the case may be.


    Some of the A1 Category Stations are New Delhi, Dehradun, Howrah, CST Mumbai, Visakhapatnam, Mughalsarai Jn, Agra Cantt, New Jalpaiguri, Jodhpur, Kharagpur, Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai central,Bangalore City, Hyderabad and others.


    For the complete list, please click the link below.


    http://pibphoto.nic.in/documents/rlink/2016/nov/p201611202.pdf


    *********


    AKS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503790) Visitor Counter : 175
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil