      Ministry of Defence

      The Nation Bids Adieu to The Marshal of The Indian Air Force Arjan Singh
      Posted On: 18 SEP 2017 11:13AM by PIB Chennai


    Mortal remains of the Marshal of the Indian Air Force Arjan Singh (MIAF) - a legendary icon of IAF were cremated with full state honours at Brar Square Crematorium in Delhi Cantt today. The Marshal breathed his last at the Army Hospital (R&R), New Delhi on 16th September 2017 following a cardiac arrest. He was 98.


    This morning at 0815 hrs, the funeral procession started from the Marshal’s residence at 7A, Kautilya Marg. His mortal remains were carried in a Gun Carriage to Brar Square Crematorium. The Inter Services Guard presented the salute followed by a wreath laying ceremony. Wreaths were laid on behalf of the President, the Vice President and the Prime Minister. The wreaths were laid in person by Dr. Manmohan Singh former Prime Minister, Raksha Mantri Smt Nirmala Sitharaman, Shri Hardeep Singh Puri MoS Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Shri LK Advani, Shri Anil Baijal Lt. Governor of Delhi, Shri Vijai Kapoor former Lt. Governor of Dehli, Commissioner Dehli Police Shri Amulya Patnaik. Three Service Chiefs also paid homage by laying wreath. Former Chiefs of Army and Air Force also laid the wreaths.


    After the religious rituals, the mortal remains were consigned to flames while seventeen Gun salutes boomed. The Indian Air Force paid their last respect to the Marshal of the Air Force through a fly past led by three Mi-17 V5 aircraft trooping IAF colours. Three Su-30 MKI aircraft thereafter flew over the crematorium in a ‘Missing Man’ formation. ‘Missing Man’ formation is flown to honour a deceased comrade in arms celebrating the spirit of an eternal warrior.


    Earlier on 17th September 2017, the mortal remains of the MIAF were taken to his residence in New Delhi, where he lay ‘in state’ for people to pay their homage. President Shri Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley, Defence Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman and many dignitaries including the three Service Chiefs paid glowing tributes to the departed soul.


    As the last post was sounded by the bugle at Brar Square it marked the end of a glorious era of the Indian Air Force.


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503382) Visitor Counter : 75
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil