      Ministry of Defence

      Shri Rajnath Singh becomes first Raksha Mantri to fly ‘LCA Tejas’
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2019 1:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Rajnath Singh has scripted history by becoming the first Raksha Mantri to fly the Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) ‘Tejas’. Shri Rajnath Singh undertook 30-minute sortie in the indigenously-built multi-role fighter aircraft with Air Vice Marshal Narmdeshwar Tiwari, at the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) Airport in Bengaluru this morning.


    Raksha Mantri described his experience of flying the fourth-generation aircraft as ’thrilling and special’. Congratulating HAL, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) for building the multi-role fighter aircraft, Shri Rajnath Singh said demand has been received for ‘Tejas’ from different countries. He expressed pride that India has reached a stage where fighter aircraft and arms & ammunition can be exported to the world.


    Raksha Mantri also praised the Indian Air Force as well as Army & Navy for their professionalism, courage and bravery. “I am proud of the soldiers of our Armed Forces”, he said.


    Air Vice Marshal Narmdeshwar Tiwari said Raksha Mantri even controlled ‘Tejas’ in the air for some time and was shown the Avionics and Sophisticated Systems onboard the aircraft. He said “Shri Rajnath Singh was very happy with the quality and smoothness of the aircraft”.


    Earlier, Shri Rajnath Singh was briefed about the functioning of the ‘Tejas’ by senior officials of Air Force.


    Dr G Satheesh Reddy, Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Chairman, DRDO; Shri R. Madhavan, CMD, HAL and other senior officials of DRDO and HAL were present on the occasion.


    Tejas is a multi-role fighter with several critical capabilities. It is meant to strengthen India’s air defence capabilities.


    ABB/Nampi/Savvy/MTJ/ADA/Anand

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585550) Visitor Counter : 780
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil , Malayalam