      Ministry of Defence

      C.S. Vishwakarma New DGOF and Chairman of Ordnance Factory Board
      Posted On: 01 SEP 2020 6:17PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 1, 2020


    Shri C S Vishwakarma, IOFS, has taken over charge as the Director General of Ordnance Factories (DGOF) and Chairman of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) from September 1, 2020 from Shri Hari Mohan, IOFS, who superannuated from the service.


    Shri Vishwakarma, an IOFS officer of the 1984 batch, holds a Masters Degree in Technology and a Bachelor Degree in Mechanical Engineering with Honours. Before taking over as the DGOF & Chairman, he was the Additional DGOF and Member of the Armoured Vehicles Group.


    In a career spanning 36 years, he has contributed significantly in various capacities across the country. Some of his assignments were at the Gun Carriage Factory Jabalpur, the Ordnance Factory Trichy, the Ordnance Factory Dehradun, the Ordnance Factory Kanpur, the Ammunition Factory Khadki (Pune), the Machine Tool Prototype Factory Ambernath (Mumbai) and at the headquarters of the Ordnance Equipment Factories.


    He was the Senior General Manager of Ammunition Factory Khadki (Pune) from February 2016 to June 2017. He also looked after the Materials and Component division of OFB as the Senior Deputy Director General before assuming the post of Additional DGOF and Member, OFB.


    
    Shri Vishwakarma was closely associated with the development of 155mm ‘Dhanush’ artillery gun at the Gun Carriage Factory, Jabalpur. Furthermore, he monitored the sighting system of the Dhanush gun system at the Ordnance Factory Dehradun. Along with that, his contribution for the development of 40mm Grenade at the Ammunition Factory Khadki (Pune) and 40mm Under Barrel Grenade Launcher (UBGL) at the Ordnance Factory Trichy are noteworthy.


    He has versatile experience in the field of ordnance production, manufacture of Armoured Vehicles, small, medium and large calibre ammunition, project management, and corporate governance among other areas.


    Furthermore, he has made significant contributions in improving the production of Armoured Fighting Vehicles.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1650422) Visitor Counter : 2