      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Good Nutrition Boosts Immunity against Covid 19 Opine Health Experts
      Posted On: 06 SEP 2020 4:54PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 6, 2020


    The Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB), Siliguri under the Union Ministry of Information & Broadcasting organized a webinar on the theme of “POSHAN ABHIYAN” on September 6 (Sunday), 2020 . The programme was organized in close co-ordination with ICDS department Govt. of West Bengal and the District Tuberculosis department Govt. of West Bengal.


    Dr. Debjani Basu, District Tuberculosis Officer, addressed the webinar on the subject of “Poshan during the Covid-19 Pandemic” period. She stressed the importance of good nutrition and made a short presentation explaining how it could boost immunity at the present times. However, she expressed the fact that though good nutrition boosts immunity, there is a need to follow other preventive measures like avoiding close contact, closed spaces and crowded places.


    Shri Rajkumar Modi, the Child Development and Project Officer, ICDS, Siliguri Urban, addressed the subject of “Poshan to mothers and children and the role of ICDS on the Poshan Mission of the Government. He threw light on the theme of this year Poshan Maah-“Eat right with every bite”. He said that ICDS involves the adolescence girls and mothers as well as only a healthy mother can give birth to a healthy child.


    The ADG PIB West Bengal Ms. Jane Namchu in her welcome address explained the importance of carrying the right message on the right Poshan to all in the community again and again.


    On the second session of the webinar, a question and answer round was also held in which a large number of ICDS workers, NGOs Officials of the region participated.


    The programme was closed with closing remarks of Sri Prem Sherpa, TA(S) Field Outreach Bureau, Jalpaiguri. The Poshan Maah is observed in the month of September in the country.


    ******


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1651801) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali