      Ministry of Railways

      COMMENDABLE PERFORMANCE OF RPF/ER
      Posted On: 03 SEP 2020 4:18PM by PIB Kolkata

      Kolkata, September 3, 2020
      RPF/Eastern Railway in its endeavour to stand beside the passengers and rail users has made deliberate efforts for offering secured Rail service to the users. The basic objective of the endeavour of the RPF/ER is to extend hands of guidance & assistance and to provide all out security for the passengers. They also render help to the passengers in distress as well as keep their vigil to stop crime and take active part in rescuing many teenaged girls/boys. Some of the recent incidents where RPF made its fullest endeavour are detailed as under:-
      1) On 1.9.2020, acting on source information, officers & staff of RPF Post/Berhampore Court alongwith officers of CIB/Sealdah and local police, Tehatta arrested a tout, namely, Lochan Biswas from his residence-cum-shop at Tehatta, Nadia. One laptop, one CPU, one smart phone, 3 CDMA mobiles, 29 Nos. of debit/credit cards, 1 notebook and other incriminating articles were recovered from his possession. On interrogation, the accused confessed that he alongwith his companion used to sell illegal software (Rare Mango) for their personal care. A case has been registered in this regard.
      2) On 1.9.2020, RPF Post, Howrah North rescued a minor boy, aged about 14 years, when he was loitering at Howrah Railway station. On interrogation, it was learnt that he ran away from home due to some family dispute and came to Howrah by bus. He was handed over to the Child Line/Howrah under proper documentation.
      3) On 1.9.2020, officers & staff of RPF Loco Post/Kanchrapara dismantled and evicted one newly brick built structure from the Railway premises of City Bazaar Railway Colony at Kanchrapara and arrested one person named Pappu alias Manoj Chowdhury. The vacated land was handed over to the concerned Railway authority for next course of action. A case has been registered in this regard.
      CG/SSS
    
    
    (Release ID: 1651008) Visitor Counter : 1