      Ministry of Railways

      E-OFFICE HELPS SER WORK FASTER AND PROVIDE BETTER SERVICE TO PASSENGERS
      Posted On: 09 SEP 2020 5:07PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 9, 2020


    The lockdown and efforts of minimizing human and physical contacts in the workplace has pushed up the digital platform usage of South Eastern Railway (SER) replacing the manual filing system. This has helped SER officials continue working remotely even during the lockdown and provide better service to the passengers.


    The number of digital files of SER offices on NIC e-office platform, implemented by RailTel, has increased more than six times during the past five months (April-August 2020). Before the lockdown, the number of e-files generated by SER was 4449 and by the end of August the number of e-files created by users of SER increased to 28557. The number of e-receipts generated by users of SER has also increased 15 times during this period. With the usage of digital filing, SER is in a fast track of adapting paperless office culture which will not only save the operational cost but also reduce the carbon footprint.


    The work of implementing e-office at the Zonal HQ and Ranchi Division were completed before lockdown. E-office at Adra, Chakradharpur and Kharagpur Divisions were completed remotely in April 2020 which helped the officers work remotely and with minimal human contact during the lockdown period. A total number of 2529 of new users were added in the past four months for ease of work.


    Due to the availability of e-office, the majority of file work in SER now can continue smoothly without the physical presence in the offices which is a boon in a time of crisis. RailTel has also provided the Virtual Private Network connections to the Railway officials for enabling them to process the file works from remote places. The quick disposal of files and systematic, timely monitoring of the pending files are some of the other immediate advantages of the NIC e-Office. SER officials have been provided with the rigorous training by RailTel teams to handle e-office platforms efficiently. The officials of SER have been conditioned to give up the habit of using manual file systems.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1652656) Visitor Counter : 2