      Ministry of Finance

      IMPACT OF PMJDY ON RURAL ECONOMY
      Posted On: 09 SEP 2020 7:16PM by PIB Kolkata


    By Tathagat Maitra
    Manager (FI), Bangiya Gramin Vikash Bank


    
    5th September,2020


    

    Mrs. Jayanti Kundu a house wife of Kuli Village, of Murshidabad district, has a LPG connection and she received the amount due to her availing DBT directly to her Bank account opened under Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana at a Customer Service Point of a PSB at her village. Her husband is a street vendor selling fruits in nearby villages was facing liquidity crisis in his business and went to a local money lender, who offered him a loan with a rate of interest 10% per month. But from the Bank they came to know that there is a collateral free overdraft facility under the PMJDY account and she availed Rs. 10,000/- overdraft from the bank at an interest rate of 9.25 % per annum. Now her husband has opened a fruit and vegetable shop in the village and applied for loan of Rs. 40,000/- in the Bank for extension of the business under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana. During the lockdown period due to Covid 19 pandemic outspread, the business of her husband was severally hampered at the time of such crisis she got Rs. 500/- into her PMJDY account each month from April to June 2020 under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana.


    
    Mr. Laksman Patra a tea seller of Chemaguri island, Sagar Block, South 24 Paraganas District, West Bengal,opened his account under PMJDY at his nearby Bank and availed a Rupay debit card linked to his account and he also used to transact digitally by using his debit card. He was the only earning member of his family having one daughter. Unfortunately he died in a bike accident. This could be the end of the story but his daughter availed the accidental insurance death benefit of Rs. 1 lakh from the ‘Rupay insurance programme’ for the Rupay debit card linked to her father’s PMJDY account and now she is successfully managing the Tea shop and she has also availed PMJDY Overdraft facility form her PMJDY account to support the business.


    
    These are not only the success stories of one or two financially included beneficiaries but also the story of every house holds who opened the accounts under Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana and availed the benefits from it.


    
    "Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY)" under the National Mission for Financial Inclusion was launched initially for a period of 4 years (in two phases) on 28th August 2014. It envisages universal access to banking facilities with at least one basic banking account for every households, financial literacy, access to credit, insurance and pension. PMJDY has provided a platform for the three social security schemes viz. Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Atal Pension Yojana (APY) and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY). The moto of financial inclusion is form Jandhan to Jansuraksha.


    
    The Government has decided to extend the comprehensive PMJDY program beyond 28.8.2018 with the change in focus on opening accounts from “every household” to “every adult”.


    
    This is not the first financial inclusion scheme launched by the Government. Previously many schemes were launched under financial inclusion, where many accounts were opened as no frills account later it was shifted to Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (BSBDA). But the main motto of financial inclusion, which is the availability and equality of opportunities to access financial services, was unachieved as vast population of the country specially, the population lies in the villages were not aware regarding the benefits of opening a Bank account and also on the other hand they didn’t feel any need of availing a bank account as they were habituated on cash transactions. As a result no savings habit was grown among them, which in turns benefited the local money landers at the time of financial exigency of the rural population of our country.


    
    But the scenario was changed when the Government decided to remit the benefit transfers directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiary and on the other hand launched the PMJDY scheme along with several facilities attached to it, like overdraft and other loan facilities, Insurance and Pension facilities. Only within 5 years, the scheme has added 40.41 Crore beneficiaries which is almost 30 % of the population of our country, under its umbrella. Now the question comes in mind whether the accounts are operative or dormant. So, the data regarding the deposit amount in these accounts will surely answer this question. These 40.41 Crore accounts have an accumulated balance of Rs. 130086.02 Cr. Hence per account average balance maintained more than Rs. 3000/-.


    
    Now let us discuss whether the rural populations were benefited or not. For analysing the same first we have to look the number of PMJDY accounts opened by the rural and semi urban population of our country. statistics shows that out of total number of accounts opened under PMJDY in the entire country, almost 60 % accounts are opened by the rural and semi urban households and the number stands at 25.72 Crore. Such penetration of financial inclusion in rural areas is only possible due the joint efforts made by the Government, print and electronic media and the Banks, specially PSBs and RRBs. The said beneficiaries are now getting the DBTs to their PMJDY accounts, the savings habit has also grown into them and they are also covered by an insurance of Rs. 1 – 2 lakh with the Rupay Cards linked to their accounts. This is not the end, many beneficiaries has also opted the additional facilities like Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojna (PMSBY), Prodhan Mantri Jivan Jyoti Beema Yojna (PMJJBY,insurance facilities), Atal Pension Yojna (a guaranteed pension scheme by Govt.), Overdraft facilities and loan under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana.


    
    In West Bengal total 3.82 Crore PMJDY accounts are opened in last five years, under which 2.71 Crore accounts are opened by rural and semi-urban households. The top three banks of West Bengal in terms of registration of PMJDY accounts are State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and Bangiya Gramin Vikash Bank. Among which more than 75 % accounts are Aadhar seeded accounts and are receiving DBT from the Government, more than 65 % accounts are making transaction using their Rupay debit cards, which is giving impetus to the Digital India campaign of the Government and last but not the least more than 53 % accounts are opened and operated by Female beneficiaries, which is giving a momentum to women empowerment in terms of financial self-dependency.


    
    Financial Inclusion is one of the top most priorities of the Government. Inclusion of a large number of population under the financial services can be a major contributor to the growth of our country. It is evident that financial inclusion is also crucial to poverty alleviation and women empowerment. PMJDY is not a mere bank account but also a complete package of financial benefits that one can avail for making himself / herself self-reliant. It is expected that is in the coming years more and more beneficiaries will add themselves and actively avail all the benefits under this scheme to make themselves ‘atmanirbhar’, which will in turn prosper our nation.


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1652724) Visitor Counter : 77