      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Webinar on nutritional needs for the mother and child
      Posted On: 07 SEP 2020 4:29PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 7, 2020


    POSHAN Abhiyaan (National Nutrition Mission) is the Prime Minister’s overarching Scheme for Holistic Nourishment, and was launched by him on 8 th March, 2018. Till then Nutrition solutions are an integral part of the Poshan Maah celebrations during the month of September 2020.


    A facebook live event on the theme of “POSHAN ABHIYAN” on September 7 (Monday), 2020 was organized by Field Outreach Bureau, Medinipur and the Regional Outreach Bureau Kolkata, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India


    One important part of POSHAN Abhiyaan is the early identification of children suffering from Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM). The Facebook Live event titled Nutrition Notes: First 1000 Days, highlighting the journey of a child from the womb to the world discussed on the nutritional needs for the mother and child.


    Dr. Parbati Sengupta, eminent Paediatrician stressed that care for the girl at home would lead to a healthy mother in future. Family food habits, coloured vegetable identification for the child and avoiding added salt and sugar for a growing child in the first 1000 days and exclusive breast feed up to six months leading to developing taste for all kinds of food- were other interesting points that came up in the course of the discussion. She said that Covid 19 is not a threat for a Corona positive mother. She can breast feeding her child and should resort to exclusive breast milk till six months.


    The theme for this year’s nutrition month was elaborately discussed by Nutrition expert ,Smt Mitali Palodhi. She mentioned that irrespective of the pandemic situation exclusive breast feeding of the new born for six months was a key game changer in the nutritional challenges of the mother and child


    Young mother of two, Smt Ankita Singha joined live from New Delhi sharing her experience of nutritional challenges of two kids of different ages in a nuclear family while Smt Pousumi Chakraborty sent her video with her response to nutrition difficulties all through carrying and growing up a five month old from Bangalore.


    The session was began by Ms. Jane Namchu, ADG PIB Kolkata welcoming the key speakers Dr. Parbati Sengupta, and Smt. Mitali Palodhi.


    CG/CB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1653325) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali