      Ministry of Railways

      SER PRODUCES 1.58 LAKH FACE MASKS AND MORE THAN 12 THOUSAND LITRES OF SANITIZER TO COMBAT COVID-19 PANDEMIC
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2020 5:05PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 14, 2020


    In view of growing cases of Covid-19, South Eastern Railway is making all out efforts to produce reusable face masks and hand sanitizer at its four divisions viz. Kharagpur, Adra, Ranchi and Chakradharpur as well as at Kharagpur Workshop. The masks and sanitizer are being prepared under the strict supervision and guidance of Medical Department of SER.


    All the divisional units of SER and Kharagapur Workshop have taken major initiatives to gear up their machineries and have produced a total number of 1,18,045 reusable face masks. Apart from this, SER Bharat Scouts & Guides have produced and distributed 40,009 face masks amongst the helpless and poor people to contain the spread of COVID-19. As a result, S E Railway has so far produced a total number of 1,58,054 reusable face masks. Moreover this railway has also produced 12,927 litres of hand sanitizer at its Headquarters and Divisions.


    To provide extensive support to its employees, South Eastern Railway has distributed reusable face masks and hand sanitizer amongst the frontline staff like loco pilots, guards and concerned staff engaged in running of freight, parcel and special trains for ensuring their protection from the pandemic.


    Apart from the above, masks and sanitizer are also being sent to health units and hospitals over SER. The masks are largely being made using cotton clothes with straps for adjustment and can be reused after proper washing. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Kits are also being prepared at Kharagpur Workshop and Kharagpur Divisional Unit of SER for supporting the Doctors, Nurses, Paramedical Staff and Health Care Personnel.


    SER’s in-house production will not only ensure timely supply of the masks, sanitizers and PPEs to the frontline staff and Health Care personnel but will also result in substantial cost savings.


    CG/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654069) Visitor Counter : 4