      Ministry of Railways

      GM, ER ADDRESSES DRMs, & PHODs IN SAFETY MEETING AT ER HQRS
      Posted On: 16 SEP 2020 1:19PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 16, 2020

    Shri Suneet Sharma, General Manager, Eastern Railway (ER) convened a Safety Meeting with all the Divisional Railway Managers, Principal Heads of Departments at Fairlie Place on Tuesday (15.9.2020). He reviewed the performance of the safety & punctuality aspect of each Division in the meeting. Shri Sharma also reviewed the permanent speed restriction in some sections of Sealdah and Malda Divisions. In his speech, he laid importance on the track maintenance and periodical inspection during the o­ngoing monsoon season and spoke of taking all the precautionary measures for the smooth running of the trains. He even advised that the yard near major stations, the drainage system at low land areas should be cleaned for smooth drainage of water to help in minimizing the signalling failure at yard and also at platform areas.


    Shri Sharma instructed to increase the sectional speed of all Divisions to 130 kmph for the sake of better train movement. He appreciated the improvement of the capacity augmentation in goods trains which was considered to be a commendable work done by the Divisions. He also stressed upo­n the reduction of expenses in non-traction energies during this pandemic period. He appreciated the role of Asansol Division for opening of Hajaratpur siding after a gap of 18 years.


    Shri Sharma attached importance to the activities of Business Development Units (BDUs) in all the Divisions & headquarters to attract more freight traffic so that Rail co-efficient may further improve in freight business. In the meeting, commodity-wise loading of freight traffic was reviewed and a decision was taken to maintain the review of the performance in this direction to eliminate any limitation or hindrance.


    ******


    ​​​​​​


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654929) Visitor Counter : 1