      Ministry of Railways

      ER LAUNCHES SPECIAL CLEANLINESS DRIVE
      Posted On: 16 SEP 2020 8:38PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata September 16, 2020


    Eastern Railway (ER) is observing ‘Swachhta Pakhwara’ from September 16 to 30, 2020 as a step further towards ‘Swachh Rail, Swachh Bharat’. During the fortnight long ‘Swachhta Pakhwara’, the action plan has been prepared for giving special emphasis for cleanliness of stations, trains, tracks, circulating areas, yards, depots, toilets, drains, water vending points, Pantry cars, canteens etc. duly observing the social distancing norms and taking other precautions. Special focus has also been given on elimination of the single use plastic and discouraging use of plastic at the railway premises. A massive awareness campaign has been launched all over ER and will be continued to that effect for maintaining trains, stations and other railway premises clean and free from waste, specially, plastic waste. Moreover, masks, sanitizers, soaps and other protective equipment will also be distributed during the ‘Swachhta Pakhwara’ to enhance the prevention of spread of Covid-19.


    Sealdah Division conducted a Webinar (Virtual Web Conference) on solid waste management, as a part of observance of ‘Swachhta Pakhwara’ by Eastern Railway.


    Today, a massive cleanliness drive has been conducted at different stations of the Howrah Division.


    In Sealdah Division, the staff and officers took the Swachhta Pledge and launched a campaign for building cleanliness awareness. A webinar was also conducted today on Solid waste management, wherein the distinguished speaker Dr. B.K. Dubey, Professor of IIT/Kharagpur shared his valuable knowledge on the subject with all the officers of the Sealdah Division.


    Special cleanliness drive at Howrah station.


    In Asansol Division, Swachhta Pledge was administered among the employees and an awareness campaign was launched at Asansol. A Webinar (Virtual Web Conference) on cleanliness was also organized.


    Awareness building campaign for maintaining cleanliness in Eastern Railway’s Liluah Workshop on the occasion of Swachhta Pakhwara.


    In Malda Division, a massive cleanliness drive was launched at all the railway offices to remove waste and junk materials for a cleaner environment.


    Similar cleanliness drives along with a campaign for Swachhta was also launched at three workshops like Liluah, Kanchrapra, Jamalpur as well as the Headquarters offices of ER.


    Awareness Campaign organized by Asansol Division on the occasion of ‘Swachhta Pakhwara’ being observed by Eastern Railway from September 16 to 30, 2020.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1655370) Visitor Counter : 1