      Prime Minister's Office

      DEDICATION OF ELECTRIFIED SHIVNARAYANPUR – BHAGALPUR SECTION TO THE NATION BY HON’BLE PRIME MINISTER
      Posted On: 18 SEP 2020 8:35PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 18, 2020


    Shri Narendra Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister, Govt. of India dedicated to the Nation (through video conferencing) today (18.9.2020) a series of projects including Kosi Rail mega bridge, newly electrified sections including Shivnarayanpur – Bhagalpur section, New Electric Loco Shed, Barauni, new lines, gauge conversion, new bridge on river Kiul and electronic interlocking by replacing old mechanical signalling in Kiul Yard and flagged off passenger trains on Hajipur – Vaishali new line, on Islampur – Natesar new line, electric train on newly electrified Katihar – New Jalpaiguri section, electric train from Sitamarhi & DEMU trains.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Narendra Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister, Govt. of India said that projects of ₹3,000 crore in Bihar have been implemented today which will facilitate the Railway system in Eastern India. During last 5 – 6 years Railway development activities are on in Bihar which specially include Rail connection between North Bihar & South Bihar. Shri Modi further said that North Bihar was deprived of progress but today people of North Bihar are at par with the rest of Bihar in terms of Rail connectivity & socio-economic growth. Shri Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister, Govt. of India said that Indian Railways is working to fulfill the aspirations towards building up new India and self-sufficiency. Remote corners of the country are being connected with Railway network. 3000 km of Railway track in Bihar has already been electrified and today five projects are included. In the five years from 2014, 700 km Railway lines have been commissioned and 1000 km Railway lines are under construction. Shri Narendra Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister, Govt. of India expressed his satisfaction over the fact that work on Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) in Bihar is proceeding fast fulfilling the economic growth of the Nation. He appreciated Shri Piyush Goyal, Hon’ble Minister of Railways, for running Shramik Special and Kisan Rail. He re-affiremed that all the Railway projects lead to overall development of the State of Bihar and it will provide multiple benefits to the people of Bihar.


    Welcoming Shri Narendra Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister, Govt. of India and other dignitaries, Shri Piyush Goyal, Hon’ble Minister of Railways said that today a glorious chapter in the history of Rail connectivity in Bihar has been opened. Shri Goyal said that Shri Narendra Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister, Govt. of India has special concern for the people of Bihar and thus takes his utmost interest in implementing various Railway projects and to expand the Railway infrastructure of Bihar. Shri Goyal further said that the speed of freight trains have been increased to supply commodities on a punctual manner. He expressed his determination for the overall development of the Railways in Bihar which will lead to socio-economic growth of entire Eastern India.


    Shri Nitish Kumar, Hon’ble Chief Minister, Govt. of Bihar expressed his gratitude for implementing various Railway projects in Bihar and thanked Shri Piyush Goyal, Hon’ble Minister of Railways for fast completion of different Railway projects in Bihar.


    As regards the newly electrified section between Shivnarayanpur – Bhagalpur section under Eastern Railway’s Malda Division, it is stated that completion of electrification of the missing link between Shivnarayanpur to Bhagalpur (93.778 Track Kilometers) provide seamless operation of goods & passenger service under electric traction and provides an alternate direct route from Howrah, Sealdah & Kolkata to New Delhi alongwith connection to Delhi. In addition with the commissioning of Jamalpur to Monghyr section under electric traction, ER is linked with Barauni – Katihar section and opens another electrified route connecting East Central Railway and Northeast Frontier Railway to Kolkata through newly electrified Bhagalpur – Shivnarayanpur route.


    By introduction of electric traction, operational cost has been reduced by 55%. The newly electrified sections provide faster, environment friendly and efficient way of transportation reducing carbon emission. It is a contribution of Railways towards creating the greener world.


    Shri Nityaand Rai, Hon’ble Minister of State, Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt. of India and Shri Sushil Modi, Deputy Chief Minister, Govt. of Bihar also spoke on the occasion.


    CG/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656418) Visitor Counter : 1