      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDMA to conduct workshop on Disaster Risk Reduction database
      Posted On: 01 MAY 2018 3:31PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) is conducting a two-day National Workshop on Data Requirements for Disaster Risk Reduction Database beginning here tomorrow. The workshop is being held in collaboration with United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UNISDR).


    India often refers to global databases and snapshots of disaster events for reporting disaster losses. However, these databases work under various limitations and are not able to produce accurate analyses.


    In this background, it is important to create a uniform and credible national-level disaster database. Locally obtained and validated data will aid scientific analyses and suitable policy interventions to reduce disaster risks.


    The workshop aims to develop consensus on disasters, thresholds and develop standardised templates for data collection, updation and validation to ensure accuracy and quality. Issues such as interoperability and security of the data will also be discussed.


    This database is crucial for assessing and tracking our risks and progress towards resilience without which India will not be able to meet its developmental goals. It will also be a step forwards towards implementing the Prime Minister’s 10-point agenda to address disaster risks, outlined during the Asian Ministerial Conference on DRR (AMCDRR) in November, 2016.


    Two technical sessions - Disaster information and data management system on damage and loss and good practices, and Discussion to record an event as a disaster in DRR database - will be held on the first day of the workshop. Three technical sessions - Group Presentations and Discussions, Panel discussion on setting up baseline data for damage and loss estimation using 2005-2015 dataset and Discussion on Formation of a “Steering Group for DMIS” and Way forward - will be held on the second day of the workshop.


    Officials from NDMA and representatives of concerned Central Ministries and Departments, State Governments, UN agencies, Administrative Training Institutes (ATIs), Disaster Management Institutes and Universities will participate in the workshop.


    India is one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world. These disasters result in loss of lives and livelihoods, besides causing significant damage to infrastructure and disruption of critical services. These socioeconomic losses undo years of growth and development, especially affecting the most vulnerable and marginalised populations.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530826) Visitor Counter : 630
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi