      President's Secretariat

      President of India to present visitor’s award for Research and for Technology Development tomorrow
      Posted On: 01 MAY 2018 5:07PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, will present Visitor’s Award for Research in the field of Basic and Applied Science and in the field of Humanities, Arts and Social Science during the meeting of Vice Chancellors of Central Universities at Rashtrapati Bhavan tomorrow (May 2, 2018). He will also present the Visitor’s Award for Technology Development.


    The Visitor’s Award for Research in the field of Basic and Applied Science will be jointly presented to two academics. The first is Prof. Sanjay K. Jain, Department of Pharmaceutical Science, Dr Harisingh Gour Vishwavidyalaya, Sagar, Madhya Pradesh, for his contribution to the development of a drug delivery system using folic acid conjugated liposomes containing oxaliplatin for targeted delivery of colon tumors.Thishas the potential to reduce toxicity, dosage, regimen and cost of cancer treatment.The second winner is Prof.Ashis Kumar Mukherjee, Department of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Tezpur University, Assam, for his research leading to clarity on the molecular complexicity and toxicity of the components of the snake venom from different locales of India.This too has likely utility as a new drug for treatment of diseases.


    The Visitor’s Award for Research in the field of Humanities, Arts and Social Science will be presented to Prof. Pramod K Nayar, Department of English, School of Humanities, University of Hyderabad, Telangana, for his research and publications particularly covering the important areas of poetry for the underprivileged, memoirs and fiction, the Bhopal gas tragedy and other episodes.


    The Visitor’s Award for Technology Development will be presented to Prof. Ashwani Pareek, School of Life Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi, for developing Stress Tolerant Rice of the Next Generation (STRONG). This has the potential to enhance farm incomes.


    For selecting the winners, online applications were invited from all Central Universities for each category. A Selection Committee headed by Shri Sanjay Kothari, Secretary to the President and comprising eminent persons and academicians,assisted by a Sub Committee,chose the winners of the Awards.


    ***


    AKT/KP/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530854) Visitor Counter : 1252
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil