      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Social Security of unorganized sector workers is the top most priority of our Ministry- Santosh Gangwar
      Posted On: 01 MAY 2018 4:01PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Shri Nitin Gadkari today called for innovative ways to work for the welfare of the workers. Presiding over the International Labour Day Programme today, Shri Gadkari said there is a need to link the workers to Aayushman Bharat and Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojna to provide them better health and housing facilities. Minster for Labour & Employment (I/C), Shri Santosh Gangwar expressed his commitment for Social Security of the unorganized Sector Workers. Greeting workers on the occasion, he said the workers are the top most priority of our Ministry and C entral Government.


    Shri Gadkari inaugurated a number of new initiatives by EPFO and Central Labour Commissioner (CLC) at the programme organized by Ministry of Labour & Employment and gave awards to model employers of ESIC and EPFO.


    These include the Concurrent Audit Software launched by EPFO which will allow instantaneous real time audit of the transactions taking place in its centralized data base system including process of remittances, receipts and settlements of claims, payments of pension, transfer of PF accumulations.


    Redevelopment project of Bhavishya Nidhi Bhawan, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi was also inaugurated today. The redevelopment project is being undertaken at an approximate cost of Rs.60.47 crore with an expected time frame of 22 months.


    On the occasion of International Labour Day, Metlife Global Operations Support Centre and IDFC Bank Limited were felicitated as model employers in the exempted sector. Gujarat State Fertilizers Co. Ltd. (VP/BRD/5238) was felicitated in the un-exempted sector.


    The two employers from Un-exempted sector are those who have more than 5000 employees and have made timely payment of Provident Fund dues in the previous 12 months and have outstanding contribution in providing ‘Aadhaar’ verified employee details.


    The establishment identified from the exempted sector is on the basis of their ranking in the online return dashboard for exempted establishments under the EPFO. The establishment identified has secured maximum score in 7 months since the introduction of the online ranking system in July 2017.


    Many initiatives like Filing of online Annual Return under 8 labour laws on Shram Suvidha Portal (SSP); Transparent and accountable system of inspection through SSP; Issuing of Online Registration Certificates under BoCW act 1996, ISMW act 1979 and Contract Labour act 1970 were launched by CLC.


    M/S the Leprosy Mission Community Hospital Nandnagri, Delhi, M/s Welspun India Ltd. Vapi, Gujarat and M/S Lucas TVS Puducherry were selected by ESIC as model employers for felicitation. These establishments have paying contribution timely and covering 100% eligible employees.


    At the occasion five construction workers namely Smt. Asma, Shri Talsim, Smt. Vandana Devi, Shri Dheer Singh and Shri Nand Kishor were provided monetary benefits.


    Shri Gadkari released a quarterly newsletter “Child Hope” which documents the success stories and best practices of the special Training Centers and the National Child Labour Project Societies for dissemination and replicability among the NCLP Districts across the country. “Child hope” covers a range of issues relating to Child Labour with the purpose of generating awareness and sensitising different sections of population towards progressive elimination of child labour. Special issue of the VVGNLI POLICY PERSPECTIVES was also released at the occasion.


    The programme was attended by representatives of labour organisations, International Labour Organisation and senior officials of the Ministry.


    ****


    JN/SKP/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530832) Visitor Counter : 789
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Tamil