      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Committed to augmentation of Airport capacity through NABH (Nextgen Airports For Bharat) Nirman initiative : Suresh Prabhu
      
      Site Clearance Approval for setting up of Greenfield International Airport at Purander, Pune granted
      
      In-principle approval accorded to Govt of Uttar Pradesh for setting up of Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar
      
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2018 5:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Suresh Prabhu, Minister for Civil Aviation today said that the government is committed to the building of airport capacity as part of NABH (NextGen Airports for BHarat) Nirman initiative. He said that the three key aspects of NABH Nirman are (1) fair and equitable land acquisition, (2) long-term master plan for airport and regional development and (3) balanced economics for all stakeholders. He said that improving passenger amenities, promoting cargo handling facilities and early operationalisation of 56 new airports under UDAN scheme will be his focus areas while simultaneously working on improving regional connectivity and improving passenger services in a big way.


    Accepting the recommendations made by the steering committee on Greenfield Airports, Sh. Suresh Prabhu today accorded site clearance approval to the Greenfield International Airport at Purander, Pune. The Minister also accorded ‘in-principle’ approval to the Government of Uttar Pradesh for setting up of Noida International Greenfield Airport at the North of Jewar Village, Utta Pradesh.


    One of the conditions of site clearance approval to Pune Greenfield Airport is that the Mahashtra Airport Development Company Ltd - MADC, the agency executing the project, will try not to close the existing Pune airport. It will accordingly take up the matter with Ministry of Defence and will try to make both the airports available for civil use. With the grant of site clearance approval, the MADC, may proceed with preparation of Techno Economic Feasibility Report and Detailed Project Report.


    MoCA had granted site clearance to the Noida International Greenfield Airport on July 06, 2017. The U. P. Government appointed Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) as the implementing agency on its behalf in October 2017. YEIDA obtained the No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Ministry of Defence on January 11, 2018. With the Minister’s approval today the YEIDA has got in-principle approval for setting up of Noida International Greenfield Airport at North of Jewar village, Uttar Pradesh.


    RJ/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531634) Visitor Counter : 836
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil