      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Dharmendra Pradhan on a 3 day visit to UAE from tomorrow
      Posted On: 11 MAY 2018 7:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship Dharmendra Pradhan will lead an official delegation to UAE from 12-14 May 2018. The visit is to follow up on the state visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to UAE in February 2018.


    During the visit Pradhan is scheduled to meet his UAE counterparts H.E. Suhail Mohamed Faraj Al Mazrouei, Minister of Energy and Industry and H.E. Dr. Sultan Al Jaber, UAE Minister of State and ADNOC Group CEO and discuss issues of bilateral hydrocarbon engagement within the overall framework of India-UAE Strategic Partnership. He will also participate in UAE Downstream Investment Forum and speak on ‘New Trade Flows, New Market Opportunities’.


    Shri Pradhan along with H.E. Sultan Jaber are expected to jointly flag off the 1 st consignment of ADNOC crude oil for Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) facility of Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Ltd (ISPRL) at Mangalore. This will be the first such investment by any foreign company in Indian SPR facility. During the State visit of PM Narendra Modi to UAE, ISPRL and Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) of UAE had signed the Amended and Restated Oil Storage and Management Agreement. Under the Agreement ADNOC would be storing about 5.86 million barrels of crude oil in the cavern at Mangalore at its own cost.


    During the visit, Pradhan who is also the Minister for Skill Development and Entreprenurship, is scheduled to meet H.E. Nasser Al Hamli, UAE Minister for Human Resources and Emiratization. Both are expected to discuss outcomes of first Skill Mapping Conference held in April 2018. There are over 2.8 million Indian expats in UAE working in both semi skilled and technical areas.


    During the visit, Pradhan will participate in the roadshow on the Discovered Small Fields (DSF) Bid Round – II and 9 th City Gas Distribution (CGD) international bidding round inviting foreign investors to participate in the largest Indian CGD bid round covering 174 districts.


    *****


    PP/AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531935) Visitor Counter : 179