      Ministry of Power

      Environmentally Healthy and Clean India is at the Core of the Government’s Long Terms Goals: RK Singh
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2018 3:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Environmentally Healthy and Clean India is at the core of the Government’s long term goals says the Minister of State (I//C) Power and New and Renewable Energy Shri RK Singh. Inaugurating NTPC’s two day conference on Agro Residue and Municipal Solid Waste to Power, today he said the intent is to generate power keeping the environment health and contributing to Swachh Bharat. The Minister added that social objective is that of a healthier planet and there are costs attached to attain this objective. The intent is to design policies so that long-term social goals are met for clean India. Agro residue and municipal solid waste can both be used for power generation, this just need to address the challenges to optimally leverage this process.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri A.K. Bhalla, Secretary, Power s aid NTPC is the flagship company of the whole country and complemented the management for bringing in the spirit of innovation to tackle these issues for a clean environment. The conference is an ideal platform for all stakeholders to collate and interact on imperatives and issues facing the sector and use them at power projects on Pan-India basis.


    In its effort to curb air pollution, the NTPC had invited tender for procurement of agro residue based biomass pellets. It has been successful in obtaining the commitment for receiving approximately 200 metric tonnes per day of agro residue based fuel at NTPC Dadri. It will generate approximately 150 MU of renewable electricity annually.


    NTPC is actively working to find out the solution for Agro residue and Municipal Solid Waste to Power the workshop is deliberating issues amongst policy makers, pellets manufacturers, regulators, financiers and power professionals, waste to energy experts and companies in the field of waste to energy.


    ****


    JN/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531595) Visitor Counter : 590
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Tamil