      Ministry of Culture

      Ministerial opening of the Exhibition- ‘India & The World – A History in Nine Stories’
      
      “Proud of the rich cultural bondage between India and United Kingdom”:Dr. Mahesh Sharma
      
      “India and UK share a lot in common” : Rt Hon. Matt Hancock MP

      Posted On: 11 MAY 2018 9:19PM by PIB Delhi

    Ministerial Opening of the exhibition ‘India & The World – A History in Nine Stories’ by Hon’ble Minister of State for Culture(I/c) and Minister of State for Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Govt of India, Dr. Mahesh Sharma and UK Secretary of State for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, The Rt Hon. Matt Hancock MP was held today at the National Museum auditorium, New Delhi.


    Dr. Alexander Evans, deputy High Commissioner, British High Commission, New Delhi , Mr. Hartwig Fischer, Director, British Museum, Dr. B.R.Mani, Director General, National Museum, were also present at the event.


    The Exhibition, marks an unprecedented collaboration in museum exhibition, with the British Museum, London; National Museum, New Delhi; and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya (CSMVS), Mumbai and is actively supported by the Culture Ministry. The exhibition chronologically encapsulates the evolution of Indian civilization since antiquity and its interconnectedness with the outside world through a raft of exquisite artefacts from India and abroad. ‘India and the World: A History in Nine Stories’ offers insights into two million years of history. It was planned as part of commemoration of 70 years of India’s independence and a year of major cultural exchange between India and the UK (UK/India 2017). Over 200 objects from British Museum, London and 20 museums and private collections from India are on display.


    Speaking at the event, Minister of State for Culture(I/c), Dr. Mahesh Sharma said that “India is driven by the philosophy of ‘ Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’, meaning ‘world is one family’, and it is the essence of Indian Culture which is the binding force in the country. We are proud of the rich cultural bondage between India and UK.”


    Speaking on the occasion, UK Secretary of State for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, The Rt Hon. Matt Hancock MP, said “The Exhibition manifests the spirit of collaboration between India and UK. The Exhibition tells the story of India and her proud History in the Global context. There is more in common than the differences between our two countries. The Exhibition is an example of, two thriving nations working side by side to produce something special.”


    The Exhibition willrun for two months till June 30 and is available for public viewing on all days from 10 am to 6 pm, except on Mondays and public holidays


    NB/PS


    *****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531946) Visitor Counter : 336