      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      De-congestion of Parade Road and Dhaula Kuan
      Posted On: 10 MAY 2018 8:18PM by PIB Delhi


    NHAI opens slip lane for free left at Parade road junction as part of its Dhaula Kuan Airport Decongestion plan. Work done in 40 days. Likely to give huge relief to airport bound traffic. Work involved Construction of RCC boundary wall for Airforce, shifting of water, Sewarge, OFC, electric and gas pipelines.


    1.In order to eradicate the problem of traffic congestion in the Dhaula Kuan-Airport Corridor, Ministry of Road Transport &Highways, Govt. of India sanctioned a project for improvement of Dhaula Kuan and Parade Road junction. On account of constraints in transfer of land from Defence Authorities and Forest clearance, this work could physically start on 23.03.2018,


    2. At T- junction near Defence area on Parde Road, the project provide for widening of 1.845 Km. (1.445 Km. along NH-8 and 0.4 Km. along Parade Road) including 3 lane underpass.


    3. Inspite of the limited work front and restricted working hours available for construction, due to security concerns of Indian Air Force, NHAI was able to achieve the target of completing First Mile Stone to open 4 lane left side main carriageway on Dhaula Kuan - Airport corridor in Delhi- Gurgaon direction within just 45 days. The work involved shifting of various utilities like over head electric lines, sewer lines, storm water lines, air force OFC network, tree cutting, IGL gas pipe lines etc. and construction of 450 m. RCC panel boundary wall in Air force area and 1400 m. boundary wall in the army area and four lane carriageway (LHS) in Delhi-Jaipur direction.


    4. With opening of this carriageway, traffic congestion on LHS of NH-8 will be eased out. The traffic from Dhaula Kuan to Gurgaon and Parade Road will take free left. Gurgaon bound traffic will continue over RTR flyover as it is, but till the completion of underpass, traffic bound to Parade Road will take U-turn below RTR flyover.


    ****


    NP/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531854) Visitor Counter : 262
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil