      Ministry of Finance

      4th Regional Conference on Futuristic, Resilient and Digital Infrastructure of the ​Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank ​ begins in Bengaluru today
      
      Experts give thrust to Optimal Balance between Agronomization and Urbanization to Maximize Productivity

      Posted On: 03 MAY 2018 6:45PM by PIB Delhi

    The Ministry of Finance, Government of India in collaboration with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), and Research and Information System for Developing Countries (RIS) organized the 4 th Regional Conference on Futuristic, Resilient and Digital Infrastructure in Bengaluru today. The 2-day Conference is a lead-up to the 3rd Annual Meeting of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) to be hosted by the Government of India on 25th and 26th June 2018 in Mumbai. The Conference saw eminent delegates representing partner institutions, academia, civil society organizations and experts from various fields expressing their views on how to bring about institutional approaches for futuristic and digital infrastructure in India.


    While setting the theme for the Conference , Mr. Kirit Parikh, Chairman, Integrated Research and Action for Development, New Delhi said that infrastructure plays a very important role in a city’s resilience. He said that a proper early warning system can reduce the number of deaths during the natural disasters like tsunami. Infrastructure does not only include just roads, power lines and bus services, but also need to incorporate a level of anticipation in their infrastructure to overcome natural calamities and man-made disasters. He said that the damage during the Mumbai terror attacks could have been minimized if we there was a proper coordination among different agencies. This is where digital infrastructure is important. Today we can reach every nook and corner of the country through mobile connectivity. We have a large database but we need ability to analyze it and to disseminate information appropriately.


    Mr. Akira Matsunaga, Economist, Asian Development Bank (ADB) said that ADB in recent years has been a very active partner to enhance the infrastructure in Asia. There is a growing demand for improving infrastructure in South Asia, including water, waste water management and waste management, transportation among others. He said that rapid urbanization is a challenge and at the same time, it is an opportunity because without successful urbanization no country can achieve sustainable development. According to him, the Economic Survey clearly states only sustainable economic development will increase productivity. He said that productivity can be increased by Agronomization.For urbanizationto enjoy Agronomization, there is a need to create an optimal balance to maximize advantage and minimize disadvantage.


    Mr. S Chandrasekhar, Past Chairman CII Karnataka and Managing Director, Bhoruka Power Corporation Lt. said that infrastructure is the major driver of the Indian economy. The sector is responsible for catapulting the overall development. He said that the Government of Indai has taken a lot of initiatives for infrastructure development including several national schemes like Sagar Mala, Bharat Mala, Defense Corridor, Delhi–Mumbai Industrial Corridor, the Mysore – Chennai infrastructure corridor, Smart City and citizen linked digital schemes to name a few. According to him, India is at the onset of an evolution in city infrastructure which, in turn, will benefit the masses. He said that there are challenges of Scientific evidence on fast changing geo-climatic conditions, development gaps among the vulnerable, adverse implications of resource intense development process, severity of pollution and climate change among others. Therefore, he said that there is an immediate need to shift to futuristic and inclusive infrastructure.


    The First Day of the Conference has seen deliberations by the eminent speakers on State of Institutional Approachesfor Futuristic, Resilient and Digital Infrastructure, Resilient Infrastructure and Disaster Preparedness, Future of Mobility and Multi-modal Transportation, and Global Regimes and Industry implications for Domestic Capacity among others.


    ************


    DSM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531243) Visitor Counter : 755