      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Time for Asia to shape its own stories of Human struggle against all odds, to brighten their future, says Col. Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore
      
      Col. Rathore gives away the World Television Awards 2018

      Posted On: 11 MAY 2018 6:38PM by PIB Delhi

    It is time for Asia to shape its own stories of Human struggle against all odds, to brighten their future, said Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs & Sports (IC) and Information & Broadcasting, Col. Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, while addressing the closing session of the 15 th Asia Media Summit 2018, here today. Asia is developing stronger socially and economically. How better the media can help the people visualize the information necessary for their development, especially in the social media age, is the most important take away from the two-day Summit, the Minister added.


    Col. Rathore congratulated the organizers and complimented the 395 delegates from 41 countries for holding such critical discussions during the Summit that would help in exchanging the best practices across the Nations on media technology, content and new platforms. This would facilitate better regional cooperation in reaching out to millions of underprivileged Asians to utilize the information in best way for their development.


    During the closing ceremony, the Minister gave away World Television Awards 2018 , for two categories – Best TV documentary in Humanity category on ‘Migration or Immigration’, and Best TV Programme in Science/ Environment category on ‘Clean Water for Life’.


    Journey on Foot "Homewards" directed by Hang Seok was awarded Best TV Documentary on Migration or Immigration under Humanity Category. This documentary was broadcast by KBS1 - Korea.


    Blueprint for Survival: NEWater , directed by Mak Ying Kwan got the award for the Best TV Programme on Clean Water for Life under Science/Environment Category. It was broadcast by the channel News Asia, Singapore.


    Giving the closing remarks, Mr. Chang Jin, Director Asia-Pacific Institute of Broadcasting Development (AIBD), summarized the agenda of the Summit and the important takeaways from the marathon sessions held.


    During the last 4 days, 6 pre-summit workshops were held on topics including augmented reality and virtual reality, media law and ethics, mobile journalism etc. The 5 Plenary Sessions and 4 parallel sessions held included media regulation policies, new technologies in broadcasting and film industry to enhance storytelling, media business models in new era, sustainable development stories, community radio and CEOs roundtable sessions, among others.


    *****


    RM/SNC/VM/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531922) Visitor Counter : 185
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali