      Ministry of Culture

      Exhibition -‘India and the world: a history in nine stories’, to commemorate 70 years of India’s independence inaugurated at national museum, new Delhi today.
      
      British Museum lends iconic objects to be shown for the first time in India

      Posted On: 05 MAY 2018 8:20PM by PIB Delhi

    First of its kind, mammoth exhibition on Indian Civilisation, was inaugurated by, the President, Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, (IGNCA), Shri. Raam Bahadur Rai, at National Museum, New Delhi, today. H.E. Sir Dominic Asquith KCMG, the British High Commissioner to India; Sri L.N. Sharma, Chief Postmaster General (Delhi Circle);Dr Hartwig Fischer, Director, British Museum; Dr Sabyasachi Mukherji, Director CSMVS; Dr Anamika Pathak, In-charge of Exhibition, National Museum; Mrs. Usha Sharma, DG, ASI, were also present at the inauguration.


    The Exhibition,marks an unprecedented collaboration in museum exhibition, withthe British Museum, London; National Museum, New Delhi; and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya (CSMVS), Mumbai and is actively supported by the Culture Ministry.


    The exhibition chronologically encapsulates the evolution of Indian civilization since antiquity and its interconnectedness with the outside world through a raft of exquisite artefacts from India and abroad. ‘India and the World: A History in Nine Stories’ offers insights into two million years of history. It was planned as part of commemoration of 70 years of India’s independence and a year of major cultural exchange between India and the UK (UK/India 2017).


    Shri Raidescribed the exhibition as a “journey through history”, taking Indians to “moments in history that are a matter of pride for us”.“This is also a celebration of cultural exchanges and a moment to remember that our civilization has existed for millions of years and what it has given to the world in terms of culture, science and spirituality,” he added.


    Speaking at the event, National Museum Director General Dr. B R Mani, said “This is a phenomenal exhibition for the sheer number of artefacts, the profoundness of concept and the unprecedented extensive collaboration of Indian museums and private collections with the British Museum, London. It truly offers a brilliant exposition on the splendid Indian civilisation and its impact on the global civilizations of the yore,”


    Dr. Hartwig Fischer, Director, British Museum, said it is a first of its kind project that establishes a dialogue between objects, cultures, institutions and the public to provide a new and rich perspective on moments in Indian history.


    Present at the occasion, Mr. Sabyasachi Mukherjee, Director General, CSMVS, said, “ The exhibition is a first of its kind experiment outside the US, the UK and European borders, and attempts to provide a model for museums to share their collections with people across the world, some of whom may otherwise never have access to them. The objects from the British Museum and from Indian museums and private collectors, together in conversation, unlock fascinating stories and histories, and help us understand how we relate to the wider world."


    Unveiling a special postal cover brought out by the Department of Post, Shri L.N. Sharma said the exhibition showcases Indian history from two million years ago to the present day, not just displaying the regional connects but global links that provide visitors with a lifetime opportunity and a great learning experience.


    A special feature added to this significant exhibition includes the brail tactile feature of some of the displayed objects for those visually challenged visitors who may like to know and feel the beauty of the objects. It was collaborated with Access for ALL, DAG and Radio Mirchi in creating an apparatus to understand the various aspects of the exhibition through multiple senses. Another important feature to this exhibition is the installed tactile paintings and 3 D models which leads to a wide range of interaction with the object on display, thus making it universal to a large section of the society.


    The Exhibition will run for two months till June 30 and is available for public viewing on all days from 10 am to 6 pm, except on Mondays and public holidays. There will also be theatre workshops, guided tours, thematic walks for kids and interesting events like treasure hunt and o nline weekly quiz on the event’s website ( https://www.indiaandtheworld.org ).


    NB/PS


    *****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531424) Visitor Counter : 405
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil