      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways announces Awards for beautification of Station premises
      
      Out of 62 entries, Balharshah and Chandrapur (Central Railway) bag First prize;Madhubani (East Central Railway) and Madurai (Southern Railway) adjudged second; Gandhidham (Western Railway) Kota (West Central Railway) share Third Prize with Secunderabad (South Central Railway)

      Posted On: 04 MAY 2018 5:27PM by PIB Delhi

    In order to promote cleanliness with creativity, the Ministry of Railways had invited nominations across all Zonal Railways for stations where beautification has been done with participation of local artists. The evaluation committee consisting of the Executive Director (Station development), Chief Commercial Manager (systems) of South Central Railway, Executive director (Tourism) and an official from the Northeast Frontier Railway set up to review 62 entries received from 11 Zonal Railways.


    Balharshah and Chandrapur stations (Nagpur Division) of Central Railway have been awarded first prize for depicting the best art & refurbishing itself as the most beautiful station across Indian Railways. Ballarshah and Chandrapur railway stations were decorated with paintings and sculptures depicting the Tadoba forest, which was welcomed by the passengers who had a feel of the rich wildlife beauty of the Tadoba Forest in the station itself.Both the stations have been awarded Rs 10 Lakhs as the prize money.


    Madhubani Railway station under Samastipur Division of East Central Railway in Bihar has been declared the second best along with Madurai Railway Station (Southern Railway).More than 100 artists adorned Madhubani station with renowned Madhubani paintings in only 10 days in October last.At Madurai Railway Station, the walls were painted with various murals relating to Madurai. One of them is the scene which depicts the giving away of the bride Goddess Meenakshi to Lord Sundareswarar by Lord Vishnu from the celestial wedding which is performed at the Sri Meenakshi Amman temple. Apart from this, colourful paintings also adorn many other walls of the railway station. The second prize winners will receive Rs 5 lakhof prize money.


    Kota Station (West Central Railway), Gandhidham Station (Western Railway) &Secunderabad Station (South Central Railway)were adjudged as the Third Prize winning Stations. The third prize winners will receive Rs3 lakh of prize money. Secunderabad Station has taken on a new look, which is steeped in the rich traditions of Cheriyal Scroll Paintings. Deriving its lineage fromCheriyal village near Warangal,Telangana, the costumes and settings provide an authentic glimpse of the rich culture of Telangana. The rural element renders it an aura of exclusivity and charm.


    Ballarshah Station


    Chandrapur Station


    Madurai Station


    Madhubani Station


    Gandhidham Station


    Kota Station


    Secundrabad Station


    ***


    SBS/MKV/ENS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531352) Visitor Counter : 984
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi