      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      India Pavilion Inaugurated at Cannes Film Festival 2018
      
      Co-production opportunities between India and France Explored
      
      Posted On: 11 MAY 2018 3:04PM by PIB Delhi


    The inaugural session of the Indian Pavilion at the Cannes Film Festival 2018 was held at Cannes, France. Hosted by noted actor Shri Sharad Kelkar, the Indian delegation present consisted of H.E. Vinay Mohan Kwatra, Ambassador of India to France, Shri Ashok Kumar Parmar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of I&B, Govt. Of India, Shri Prasoon Joshi, Writer, Poet and Chairman, Central Board of Film Certification India, Ms Vani Tripathi Tikoo Member, Central Board of Film Certification, Producer and Director, Shri Jerome Paillard, Executive Director, Marche Du Film Festival, Cannes Film Market, Ms. Huma Qureshi, Film Actress, Shri Shaji Karun, Film maker, Shri Jahnu Barua, Film maker and Shri Bharat Bala, Film maker. The agenda of the delegation from India this year is to showcase diversity in films of our country while furthering collaborations with various other countries.


    Indian delegation in India Pavilion at the Cannes Film Festival 2018


    Speaking about the growth of the nation being well reflected through our cinema H.E Vinay Mohan Kwatra, said that what is happening in our country currently is the unprecedented transformation in technology and the economy and that these growing externalities are reflected in Indian Cinema. Shri Jerome Paillard stated that Indian Pavilion is a very important tool to help connecting the worldwide European and worldwide community of films.


    Speaking about Indo-French Cinema collaboration Ms Vani Tripathi Tikoo, said that India has a fantastic relationship with both Cannes film festival and the French film industry. She further added that in recent times films like Tamasha and Befikre were shot extensively in this part of the world and found great resonance with the narrative story telling between the two countries.


    During the Inaugural address, Shri Prasoon Joshi said that we should also reach out to young filmmakers who might not have access to a festival like Cannes and should organize many mini Cannes film festivals all around the world to help more and more filmmakers.


    A meeting between the Indian delegation and Ms. Isabelle Giordano, Director General, Unifrance, M. Loïc Wong, Director of International Department, CNC, France along with Ms. Valérie L’Epine-Karnik, CEO, Film France was held to explore co-production opportunities between India and France.


    A round table discussion was also held to explore collaborations with countries like Brazil, Philippines, Austria, Norway, Sweden, Taiwan, Canada and New Zealand where the film commissioners from these countries discussed the opportunities and challenges for co production with India. Discussions were also held with the heads and management of various Indian studios and production houses to see how films in different languages could become more viable and what the government could do to help filmmakers in the country.


    ***


    AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531883) Visitor Counter : 398
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Hindi , Marathi , Malayalam