      Ministry of Culture

      Exhibition to commemorate the birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore, inaugurated at NGMA, New Delhi
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2018 4:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Exhibition titled ‘Gurudev: The Journey of the Maestro’, to commemorate the birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore was inaugurated at The National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA), New Delhi, Ministry of Culture, Government of India, yesterday , the 7th May 2018. The exhibition was inaugurated by H.E. Mr. Daniel Chuburu, Ambassador of the Embassy of the Argentine Republic to India, Mr. Jeffrey Sexton, Minister Counselor for Public Affairs from U.S. Embassy,New Delhi, Prof. Dr. Zoltan Wiliam, Director, and Cultural Counselor, Hungarian Information and Cultural Centre, Embassy of Hungry, Mr. Zhang Jianxin, Cultural Counselor, Embassy of the People's Republic of China in India, Mr. Santiago Ruy Sanchez, Cultural attaché, Embassy of Mexico to India and Mr. Carlos Varona Nervion, Director, Spanish Cultural Institute, New Delhi.


    Speaking on the occasion, Director General, NGMA, Shri Adwaita Garanyak said that “These artworks of versatile genius give a glimpse of his precious contributions to the visual language.” Speaking about Rabindranath Tagore he said “The maestro was fascinated by the worlds of literature, art, music and dance at an early age. In 1913, he became the first Indian to receive a Nobel Prize in Literature for his novel 'Geetanjali' . He left his imprint on art and played a role in huge transforming its practices and ushering into modernism.”


    Post inauguration ceremony witnessed Welcome Song “Ekla Cholo Re” by Children and a musical concert by Hungarian Duo – Mrs. Virág Kiss pianist and Mr. Sándor Dezső cellist on Rabindra Sangeet.


    The exhibition will be on view for public from Friday, 8th May 2018 to 10th


    June 2018, from 11 am – 6.30 pm, except on Mondays and National holidays.


    *****


    NB/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531617) Visitor Counter : 377
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali