      Ministry of Education

      Performance of Navodaya Vidyalayas students shows a tremendous jump IN JEE (MAIN) EXAMINATION 2018 results
      Posted On: 03 MAY 2018 5:25PM by PIB Delhi


    The students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas run by Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti under Union Ministry of Human Resource Development have shown excellent results in Joint Entrance Examination Main 2018 conducted by Central Board of Secondary Education. Joint Entrance Examination is conducted for admission to premier institutes like IIT/NITs in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. In a tweet today HRD Minister said that “this year 4360 Rural Students of Navodaya Vidyalaya have qualified for JEE Advanced as against 3563 students last year, which is an impressive 22% increase. Kudos to them. This is also a testimony of govt's focus on quality education.”


    Out of 11653 Navodaya students appeared in JEE main this year, 4360 have qualified to appear in Advance Examination to be conducted on 20 May, 2018. This accounts for 37% of success rate, which is much beyond any group of schools. In the previous year 9757 JNV Students appeared in JEE Main examination and 3563 qualified for JEE Advance examination. Out of 4360 students qualified for Advanced examination 444 students were trained with special coaching with the help of NVS alumni network and NGOs. NVS Alumni connect has also been established, through which the alumni are encouraged to support and hand hold the students of NVS.


    With this feat students have crossed their first step in securing admission in good institutes like IISc, IITs, NITs and other premier institutes. Navodaya Vidyalayas were started in 1986 to provide modern quality education to the Talented children predominantly from rural areas and that have produced, for many years, excellent results. NVS mentioned it as a proud moment for the organisation and congratulated all Navodaya students. There are 625 JNVs functioning across the country except Tamil Nadu. Entire cost of education and the living is incurred by the government.


    Given the number of candidates qualified in JEE main, the performance of students of Navodaya Vidyalayas is much ahead.


    *****


    NB/AK/YP/AK/ JNV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531203) Visitor Counter : 532
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali