      Ministry of Education

      Human Resource Development Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar calls upon students for large scale participation in “Swachh Bharat Summer Internship- 100 Hours of Swachhata”
      Posted On: 09 MAY 2018 4:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The Human Resource Development Minister, Shri Prakash Javadekar has urged students to come forward and become part of the nationwide Swachhta Mission by participating in “Swachh Bharat Summer Internship- 100 Hours of Swachhata” campaign. 'Swachh Bharat Summer Internship – 100 Hours of Swachhata'- was launched by the Ministry of Human Resource Development in association with the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation to engage youth across the country for sanitation related work and village level development. The program from 1st May to 31st July 2018 is aimed to develop the skill and orientation of youth for sanitation related work, bring youth across the country to make a significant contribution to the swachhta revolution and integrate youth in the community service in rural areas in the run up to the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.


    Shri Prakash Javadekar has said that Swachh Bharat Programme, launched by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has now become a people’s movement in the country. In a tweet/video message, Mr. Javadekar said that Prime Minister launched Swachh Bharat campaign three years ago and now it has caught the imagination of the public and large numbers of people are participating in it. The HRD Minister said that now it is turn of the youth to participate in Swachh Bharat Summer Internship by visiting villages for 10 to 15 days during the summer vacation for making clean and dirt free ambiance. He said that this is the self-education and people’s education process to ensure the large scale participation of the people.


    (Human Resource Development Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar urges students to join Swachh Bharat Summer Internship)


    Students enrolled in Colleges and Universities may apply in 'Swachh Bharat Summer Internship’ through the enrolment form. Candidates may participate individually or in teams also. The location and team size may be decided in consultation with Nodal Officers. After enrollment for the internship through the website, candidates will be accepted as valid only once approved by the Nodal Officer at the Parent Institution. C andidates are to devote at least 100 hours conducting Swachhata-related activities in rural areas selected by them and approved by the parent institution. The last date of registration is 15 th May, 2018.


    An Internship Report to be submitted by the candidate on the online portal in the prescribed format within 15 days of completion of fieldwork. The online report submitted by the candidate shall be reviewed and approved by the Nodal Officer for the purpose of certification and rewards. All participants will be given a Swachh Bharat Internship Certificate on completion of their internship and its approval by the parent institution. 2 curriculum credits will be given to interns whose internship reports are found eligible to get credits by parent institution. The Best 3 interns/ teams will be recognized at college, university, state and national levels.


    The winners will be awarded by Shields / cups and special certificates at College Level:


    In addition to certificates, Cash Awards will be given along with appropriate certificates as per the following:


    University Level: Rs 30,000, Rs 20,000, Rs 10,000 along with appropriate certificates. State Level: Rs 50,000, Rs 30,000, Rs 20,000 along with appropriate certificates.


    National Level: Rs 2 lakh, 1 lakh, Rs 50,000 along with appropriate certificates.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/YP/AK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531709) Visitor Counter : 734
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Marathi , Tamil , Malayalam