      Ministry of Defence

      Chief of the Air staff felicitates Airwarriors who won medals For India in CWG 2018 and ISSF world cup
      Posted On: 03 MAY 2018 6:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa PVSM AVSM YSM VM ADC Chief of the Air Staff felicitated six airwarriors for their outstanding performance in the recently held Commonwealth Games and International Shooting Sport Federation World Cup, today.


    The airwarriors were commended for their exceptional performance in these internationally coveted sporting events. JWO Vikas Thakur and Sgt Gururaja won a bronze (94 Kg weight class) and a silver medal (56 Kg weight class), respectively, in the weightlifting event at CWG 2018. JWO Ravi Kumar won a bronze medal in the 10 mtr Air Rifle event, both at CWG and at ISSF World Cup Mexico 2018. He is presently ranked No 3 in ISSF Rankings. Sgt Shahzar Rizvi won the coveted gold medal & set a World record in the 10 mtr Air Pistol event at the 2018 ISSF World Cup in Mexico. He also won a silver medal in the 10 mtr Air Pistol event at the 2018 ISSF World Cup in Korea. After achieving this feat Sgt Shahzar Rizvi is the current World No 1 in ISSF Rankings. Sgt Deepak Kumar won a bronze medal in the 10 mtr Air Rifle mixed team event at the ISSF World Cup in Mexico 2018. He is currently ranked No 9 in ISSF Rankings & No 3 in Asia. AC Gaurav Rana won a silver medal in individual event and gold medal in the team event in the 10 mtr Air Pistol at 2018 ISSF Junior World Cup in Sydney.


    The Chief of the Air Staff, in his address brought out the importance of the sportsmen becoming role models for the other airwarriors and for the youth of the Nation. He emphasized the significance of sustained efforts in improving their own performance. He also congratulated the Air Force Sports Control Board, including the coaches, for providing training and support to the airwarriors.


    The Indian Air Force has always been in the forefront for promoting sports and games. The medal harvest at the CWG-2018 and ISSF-2018 World Cup stands testimony to the directed efforts of the IAF towards sporting excellence. This will further give impetus to the sportsmen in their quest for achieving even higher standards at an international level.


    ********


    AB/MKR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531244) Visitor Counter : 229