      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s speech at the Civic Reception at Barahbiga ground in Janakpur, Nepal
      Posted On: 11 MAY 2018 6:52PM by PIB Delhi


    All the dignitaries present here and my dear brothers and sisters of Janakpur present here in large numbers,


    Jai Siya Ram,


    Jai Siya Ram,


    Jai Siya Ram,


    Brothers andsisters,


    When I came to Nepal as Prime Minister for the first time in August 2014, I had said in the Constituent Assembly that I would soon visit Janakpur. I apologize to you all as I have been a bit late. Probably, Sita Maiya (Mother Sita) had decided that today, the day of Bhadrakali Ekadashi, is the day for me to visit here. It had been my desire since long that I should pay by obeisance to Mother Sita and the capital of King Janak by visiting this place. My long and cherished dream has been fulfilled today by visiting the Janaki temple and I feel grateful in life by fulfilling that desire.


    Brothers and sisters,


    India and Nepal are two countries, but our friendship is not of recent times, we are friends since Treta Yug (since ages). King Janak and King Dashrath tied not only Janakpur and Ayodhya but India and Nepal also in the bonds of friendship and partnership. This is the bond of Ram-Sita and of Buddha and also of Mahavir. This is the bond which pulls the people of Rameshwaram to Pashupatinath. This is the bond which pulls the people of Lumbini to Bodh Gaya and this is the bond, the religious belief, and this is that affection which has brought me to Janakpur today.


    Since the period of Mahabharat and Ramayan there has been this connection of Janakpur. There has been this link of Biratnagar during the period of Mahabharat followed by Simrana Ganj. And this connection of Lumbini in the Buddha period; this relation has been there since ages. India-Nepal relations are not linked to any definition, but they are attached to a language and this is the language of faith, this is the language of affection, this is the language of bread and this is the language of relationships forged through marriage ofdaughters. This is the place of Mother Janaki, without whom Ayodhya is incomplete.


    Our mother and our faith, both are the same; our nature and our culture, both are also the same; our way and our prayers are also the same. There is this fragrance of our hard work and also the echo of our valor. Our hopes and aspirations are also the same, so are our desires and our ways. Our desires, our objective and our destination are also the same. This is the land of those hard workers whose contribution provides further impetus to the developmental journey of India. India's belief system is incomplete without Nepal. India’s faith and history is incomplete without Nepal. Our pilgrim centers are incomplete without Nepal. And even our Ram is also incomplete without Nepal.


    Brothers and sisters,


    Your piety is deeper than the ocean and your self-respect is taller than the Sagarmatha. Just like Mithila's Tulsi spreads the fragrance of purity, chastity and dignity in India’s courtyard, similarly India's affinity towards Nepal pours this entire area with the trio of peace, security and culture.


    Mithila's culture, literature, folk art, Mithila’s hospitality, everything is very amazing. And today I’ve been experiencing this thing. Today, I’m experiencing your love; I am able to feel your blessings. Mithila’s culture holds a very high place in the world. The compositions of the poet Vidyapati still hold equal importance both in India and Nepal. The sweetness of his words is still present in the literature of both India and Nepal.


    By coming to Janakpur, and after feeling your love and affection, it never occurred to me that I am among strangers, everything is just like ours, everyone is just like our own, there is affection in everything, in fact these are just our own.Friends, Nepal have been the center of spirituality and philosophy. It is that holy land where Lumbini is situated. That Lumbini where Lord Buddha was born.


    Friends, mother earth’s daughter, mother Sita symbolizes those human values, principles and traditions which connect our two nations together. This land of Janak became the source of women awakening because of mother Sita. Mother Sita epitomizessacrifice, penance, dedication and struggle. From Kathmandu to Kanyakumari, we all are followers of the tradition of mother Sita. As far as her majesty is concerned, her devotees are spread throughout the world.


    This is the land which has showed us all how our daughters should be respected. This lesson of respecting our daughters is the greatest need in the modern society.Women power has played a major role in cherishing our history and traditions. Take the example of Mithila Paintings here. Women contributed greatly to the promotion of this tradition and today this art of Mithila is famous all over the world. We also get to see the awareness about nature and environment in this art form. Today, in this era of women empowerment and climate change, this is a great message to the world from the land of Mithila. Presence of wise women like Gargi and sages like Ashtavakra in the court of Raja Janak also proves that along with administration how much importance was given to the wisdom and spirituality.


    Debates on the public welfare policies among scholars were organized in the court of King Janak. King Janak himself used to participate in those debates, and the decisions that would come out of those brainstorming was implemented in the interest of the people and the country. His subjects were everything for King Janak. He had nothing to do with the attachments and relationship with his family. Thinking about the welfare of his people and subjects was his only duty and that is why Raja Janak is also called Videha. Videha means the one who is not attached to his body, and who has dedicated himself to the public, dedicated himself to the welfare of its people.


    Brothers and sisters,


    Today, India and Nepal have been moving ahead with this message of public welfare and message of King Janak. The relations of Nepal with India have been tied by the politics, diplomacy and strategy and even beyond that they have been tied through our deities. Individuals and governments will continue to come and go, but this relationship is everlasting. This is the time when we should jointly protectfive things: values, education, peace, security and prosperity. We believe that Nepal's development itself is the source of regional development. What is the nature of friendship between India and Nepal; it can be very well understood through these couplets of Ramcharitmanas.


    जेनमित्रदु:खहोहिंदुखारी।


    तिन्हहिबिलोकतपातकभारी॥


    निजदु:खगिरिसमरजकरिजाना।


    मित्रकदु:खरजमेरुसमाना॥


    It means that it is a big sin to even look at those who don’t feel the pain of their friend's misery. Therefore, if your own misery is as vast as a huge mountain, do not give it more importance, but if your friend's misery is as miniscule as a dust particle you must consider it as mountain and you should do whatever possible to help him.


    Friends,


    History is witness that whenever any calamity had struck India or Nepal, both had stood together. We have supported each other in every difficult situations. India has been a permanent partner in Nepal’s development for decades. Nepal comes first in our 'Neighborhood First' policy. Today, India has been moving forward towards becoming the third largest economy in the world at a rapid pace, similarly your Nepal is also developing rapidly. Today, I have got the opportunity to come to Nepal to give this partnership a new energy.


    Brothers and sisters,


    First and foremost condition of development is democracy. I am happy that you are strengthening the democratic system. Elections were held in your country recently. And you people have elected a new government. You have given the mandate to fulfill your dreams and aspirations. I congratulate all of you for successfully conducting elections at all three levels within a year. For the first time in Nepal's history, all seven provinces of Nepal have elected provincial governments. This is a matter of pride not only for Nepal but it is also a matter of pride for India and the entire region. Nepal is ushering into a new phase for socio-economic change, which is based on good governance and inclusive development.


    This year, rather I should say ten years ago, youth of Nepal chose ballet over bullet. I congratulate the people of Nepal for this meaningful change from the path of conflict to the path of Buddha. Democratic values are yet another link thatstrengthens the ancient relations of India and Nepal. Democracy is that power which gives even the most ordinary and extraordinary men the right to fulfill their dreams without any impediments. India has realized this power and today every citizen of India has been dedicated to realising his dreams. I can see that spark in the eyes of all of you that you too want to take your Nepal forward on the same path. I see the same dreams for Nepal in your eyes.


    Friends,


    Recently I got the opportunity to welcome Nepal's Prime Minister Oli Ji in Delhi. I got the opportunity to know his vision for Nepal. Oli ji has dreamed of a ‘Prosperous Nepal, Happy Nepalese’. India has always wished for a prosperous and wealthy Nepal. On behalf of 1.25 billion Indians, on behalf of Government of India, I wish all the best to Prime Minister Oli for fulfilling his vision for Nepal. This is the same approach that I have for India.


    Our government in India is moving ahead with the principle of Sabka Sath-Sabka Vikas. It has been ourconstant effort that not a single section or any part of the country remains untouched from development. Whether it is east or west, whether it is north or south, the chariot of development has been running very fastin every direction. Especially the attention of our government has been much in those areas where the light of development has not reached until now. In this context, Purvanchal, which is the eastern part of India that is adjacent to Nepal border, is being given the special attention. From UP to Bihar, from North East, from West Bengal to Odisha, we have taken the pledge to bring up this whole area at par with the rest of the country. Whatever work is being done in this area, it is definitely going to benefit Nepal the most as a neighbor.


    Brothers and sisters,


    When I talk aboutSabka Satha-Sabka Vikas (Together with all-Development for all) then I wish the same not only for India but also for all its neighboring countries, and when there are discussions about ‘Prosperous Nepal-Happy Nepalese’ in Nepal, then I am very much delighted. 1.25 billion Indians become very happy too. My brothers and sisters of Janakpur, we have taken a very big resolution in India and this resolution is of making a New India.


    India is completing 75 years of independence in 2022. 1.25 billion Indians have set a target of making a New India by then. We are building a new India, where even the poorest of poor will get the same opportunity for development. Where there is no discrimination, no lower class or upper class and where everyone is respected. Where there is education for every children, income for every youth and medical facilities for the elderly. Where life is easy and a common man does not have to struggle with the system. Where the society is free from corruption and wrongdoings, we are moving ahead towards that kind of aNew India.


    We have made several improvements in the country and administration. Procedures have been simplified. And, today, the world is praising the steps taken by us. We have been strengthening the relation between nation building and public participation. Today, I have come here to assure you people that 1.25 billion Indians will be extremely happy to contribute towards making the lives of ordinary citizens of Nepal prosperous.


    Friends, the feeling of fraternity are further strengthened when we keep visitingeach other’s places. I am happy that I got the opportunity to come here amongst you peopleimmediately after Prime Minister of Nepal’s visit to India. Just as I come here often, people of both the countries should also move freely across the border in the same manner.


    We are connected through the Himalaya Mountain, through the farms and fields in the foothills, through the countless paths and kachcha roads, through dozens of small rivers, and we are also connected through our open border. However, in today's era this is not enough.We,…and I will summaries all the topics in a very brief manner that was mentioned by the chief minister. We have to connect through highways,We have to connect through Information Ways, it means through I-ways. We have to connect throughTransways, it means through electricity lines. We have to connect through railways. We have to connect through customs check posts. We have to connect through the expansion of air services. We have to connect through inland waterways. Whether it is land, air, water or space, we have to connect with each other. Connectivity is important so that people to people contacts can further flourish and strengthen and that is the reason that we are giving priority to connectivity between India and Nepal.


    Today itself, along with the Prime Minister Oli Ji, I inaugurated the bus service from Janakpur to Ayodhya. Last month, Prime Minister Oli and I had inaugurated the first Integrated Check Post in Birganj. When this post will become fully operational then the trade and movement on the border will become much easier. Work on the Jaynagar-Janakpur railway line is also moving at great speed.


    Brothers and sisters,


    Efforts are being made to complete this line by the end of this year. When this railway line will be completed, then Nepal will be connected to India’s vast railway network. We are now moving forward to connect Kathmandu with India through Raxaul in Bihar at a fast speed. Not only this, we are also trying to connect India and Nepal with waterways. Nepal will soon be connected to the sea through Indian waterways. Through these waterways the goods made in Nepal will be easily accessible to other countries which will help creation of new industries and employment opportunities in Nepal. These projects are not only important for the socio-economic transformation of Nepal but they are also important for trade and commerce.


    Today, there is a hugetrade between India and Nepal. People keep movingbetween the countries for trade. Mr. ChiefMinister you were talking about this, last month we have announced a new partnership in agriculture sector. Under this partnership, cooperation in the field of agriculture will be further encouraged. It will stress upon on how to increase the income of the farmers of both the countries. Cooperation in the use of science and technology in agriculture sector will be enhanced.


    Brothers and sisters,


    In the modern era, development without technology is impossible. India is among the top five countries of the world in space technology. You people would recall that when I had visited Nepal for the first time, then I had said that India would send a satellite for its neighbors like Nepal. I have fulfilled my promise last year. South Asia Satellite, which was launched last year, today, it has been working with its full potential and Nepal is getting benefitfrom this.


    Brothers and sisters,


    We are following the path of Five Ts for the development of India and Nepal. The first T is Tradition, thesecond T is Trade, the third T is Tourism, the fourth T is Technology and the fifth T is Transport, that is, through tradition, trade, tourism technology and transportation, we want to take Nepal and India forward on the path of development.


    Friends, in addition to culture, trade between India and Nepal is also a key link in our relationship. Nepal is developing rapidly in the field of power generation. Today, about 450 megawatts of electricity is supplied to Nepal from India. We have laid down new transmission lines for this.


    Friends, I had asked in the Constituent Assembly of Nepal in 2014 that why the oil should be supplied through trucks, why not directly through a pipeline. You will be happy to know that we have also started the work on Motihari-Amalekhganj Oil Pipeline.


    In India, our government has been running a program called SwadeshDarshan. Under this program, we are connecting our historical placeswith our spiritual places.In Ramayana Circuit, we are connecting all such places where Lord Rama and Mother Janaki had set their feet. Now, in this series, we have been moving forward in the direction of connecting Nepal also. Whatever places in Nepal are linked to Ramayana they can be connected to the rest of India and devotees can be offered the pleasure of an affordable and attractive pilgrimage so that they come to Nepal in large numbers and tourism of Nepal can be developed.


    Brothers and sisters,


    Every year thousands of devotees from Janakpur in India come to visit Janakpur on the occasion of Vivah Panchami . Devotees keep coming for performing aParikrama throughout the year. These devotees should not face any difficulties, therefore, I am happy to announce that we will cooperate with the Nepal Government in its plan for development of Janakpur and nearby areas. India will provide an assistance of Rs. 100 crores for this work. Theprojects will be identified in collaboration with the Government of Nepal and in collaboration of provincial government. Since the time of King Janak, it has been the tradition of Janakpur Dham that it has given something not only to Ayodhya but it has given something or some other thing to the entire society. I came here just to have an audience with Mother Janaki. These announcements for Janakpur are dedicated in the feet of mother Janaki on the behalf of 1.25 billion Indians.


    Similarly, there are two more such programs: Buddhist Circuit and Jain Circuit. Under these programs, all the places related with Buddha and Mahavir Jain in India are being connected with each other. There are several places related to Buddhist and Jain faith in Nepal. These could also be a good thing for developing a bond for the pilgrims and tourists of both the countries. This will also create employment opportunities for the youth of Nepal.


    Brothers and sisters,


    There are many similarities in our food habits and our languages. The number of Maithili speaking people in India is same as in Nepal. Maithili art & culture and civilization are discussed globally. When both the countries will make a combined effort for development of Maithili then the development of this language will become more easily possible. I have been told that some Maithili filmmakers are now going to release new Maithili films in Qatar and Dubai in addition to Nepal and India. This is a welcome move and it needs to be encouraged. As a large number of people here speak Maithili, similarly the number of people speaking Nepali in India is also quite high; efforts are also being made to encourage the translation of Nepali language literature. Let me also tell you that Nepali isamong those Indian languages which have been recognized in the Indian Constitution.


    Brothers and sisters,


    There is one more area where our partnership can be further developed. Indian people have started a very huge cleanliness campaign. When you visit your relatives in Bihar and other neighboring states, you might have seen and heard about it. In just three or four years, more than 80 percent of India's villages have become open defecation free. Separate toilets have been provided for girl students in every school of India. I am very happy to note that like the 'Clean India' and the 'Clean Ganga' campaigns you people have also started a successful campaign to clean the historical and religious places of Janakpur and I congratulate Mr. Mayor for this thing. It is also a matter of great pleasure that youth of Nepal is joining in the attempts to conserve the places of mythological importance.


    Particularly, I would like to congratulate Mayor of this place, his colleagues, youth of this place and members of legislature and members of parliament of this place who have taken forward the Clean Janakpur campaign.


    Brothers andsisters, today I have visited Mother Janaki. I will alsoget the opportunity to be blessed by Muktinath Dham and then Pashupatinath Ji tomorrow. I believe that with the blessings of God and people of Nepal whatever agreements will be signed, they will be helpful in realising the dream of a prosperous Nepal and a happy India.


    Once again I express my sincere gratitude to the Prime Minister of Nepal respected Oli Ji, of the state government and city government and also of the people of Nepal. I thank all of you.


    Jay Siyaram, Jay Siyaram.


    ***


    AKT/SH/KT/RSB/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531923) Visitor Counter : 976
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Tamil