      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting to establish a dedicated web portal for promotion of Audio Visual Services in India
      Posted On: 12 MAY 2018 4:04PM by PIB Delhi


    The Film Facilitation Office is in the process of establishing a dedicated web portal that will disseminate information on filming locations and the facilities available in India for production/post production. Accordingly, the portal will help potential production companies looking to shoot in India to obtain permissions, explore potential benefits (tangible and non-tangible) and obtain an overview of various locations in India that could benefit the storyline of the film under consideration.


    Application - The portal will facilitate the acceptance of application for shooting feature films / TV & Web Reality shows and series and / or TV & Web shows and series in India, along with online payments and issuing permissions. Foreign Audio Visual Agencies intending to shoot documentary films / AV commercials in India would link to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Web portal.


    Locations – The portal would also provide information on locations and link to all State portals. It would capture detailed information pertaining to a particular location, resources or facilities available in a standardized format that would include basic location description, map, best time to shoot, connectivity, photographs, digital walk tour, permissions required, previous movies shot etc.


    Enlisting of Information - The portal would provide information on all Co-production treaties, shooting guidelines of various Central and State agencies, permission process, link to all trade associations.


    Resources and Facilities Directory - The portal would have a holistic database of the resources available in the Indian film industry including DOP, cast, crew, casting agents, line producers, service / facility providers as well as producers. This would not only help build reliability for the Indian producers who shoot abroad but also enhance their profile internationally, thus leading to greater international tie-ups and engagements. It will also link all trade associations like Producers Guild, FFI, CII, FICCI, etc.


    Co-production of Films: Financial incentives will be provided to film makers for production of films under Audio Visual Co-production treaties other countries. Support for funding will be taken from the dedicated corpus funds. Policy guidelines for optimum and effective use of funds are being prepared.


    These are main activities to be undertaken by the Films Wing of the Ministry of I&B, Gov. of India, as a Champion Sector (Audio-Visual Services).


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531953) Visitor Counter : 468
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi