      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      DEPwD to organise ‘Cochlear Implant Awareness Programme’ in Faridabad tomorrow
      Posted On: 05 MAY 2018 12:30PM by PIB Delhi


    A ‘Cochlear Implant Awareness Programme’ is being organized by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in association with Indian Red Cross Society and Sarvodaya Hospital & Research Centre tomorrow on 6 th May, 2018 at Huda Convention Centre, Sector-12, Faridabad (Haryana). Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, Minister of State for Social Justice & Empowerment will be the Chief Guest in the programme. The event named Swar Swagtam is of great importance for creating awareness among the public about the Cochlear Implant Programme under ADIP Scheme of the Department.


    Smt. Shakuntala Doley Gamlin, Secretary, DEPwD (Divyangjan); Dr Ashok Kumar Sinha, Director NIHH; Dr. Prabodh Seth, Joint Secretary, (Divyangjan); Shri D. R. Sharma, General Secretary, Indian Red Cross Society (Haryana State); Dr Rakesh Gupta, Chairman, Sarvodaya Hospital; and Dr Ravi Bhatia, HoD, Centre for ENT & Cochlear Implant, Sarvodaya Hospital will also be present during the function.


    Cochlear Implant is a modern technology to help young children who have severe to profound deafness in both ears. Because of hearing impairment they are not able to speak. Cochlear Implant provides such children to hear normally in one ear and with post surgical rehabilitation they are able to speak also. Cochlear Implants are costly and were not affordable by all. Keeping in mind “Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas”, the DEPwD, Ministry of SJ&E is providing benefit of modern technology to poor persons also. It is in this direction, the Ministry has introduced Cochlear Implant programme under revised Scheme of Assistance to Disabled Persons for Purchase/Fitting of Aids and Appliances (ADIP) for the poor and needy young children.


    With the implementation of Cochlear Implant program by the Ministry of SJ&E through Ali Yavar Jung National Institute of Speech and Hearing Disabilities (Divyangjan), Mumbai, around 1149 surgeries (916 under ADIP Scheme and 233 under CSR) have been conducted across India. The Applicants have to apply based on advertisement/details on website to AYJNISHD, Mumbai: adipcochlearimplant.in. All the children are undergoing post-operative rehabilitation. The Ministry has empanelled 172 hospitals all over India to conduct the cochlear implant surgery. Most important outcome of this program is reduction in the cost of implantation and empowers children with deafness to hear and develop speech. Sarvodaya Hospital & Research Centre, Faridabad has been part of this scheme and has operated 30 kids from different parts of North India. Dr Ravi Bhatia, Senior Consultant, Sarvodaya Hospital & Research Centre is doing Cochlear Implant for last 2 years.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/05.05.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531396) Visitor Counter : 416