      UPSC

      Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination – 2018
      Posted On: 07 MAY 2018 12:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Public Service Commission will be conducting the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination-2018 on 03.06.2018 (Sunday) all over India. The Commission has uploaded the e‑Admit Card for the convenience of the admitted candidates on its website (http://www.upsc.gov.in). The candidates are advised to download their e-Admit Cards and take a printout thereof. The admitted candidates will have to produce the printout of their e-Admit Card at the allotted Venue for appearing at the Examination.


    In case the photograph is not clear, blurred or not available on the e-Admit Card, candidates will have to carry two (2) identical photographs (one photograph for each Session) along with proof of Identity such as Aadhaar Card, Driving License, Passport, Voter ID Card etc. and the printout of e-Admit Card at the Venue of the Examination for appearing at the Examination with an undertaking. No paper Admit Card will be issued for this Examination. In case of any discrepancy in the e-Admit Card, the same may be communicated to the Commission immediately by email (at email ID uscsp-upsc@nic.in) for taking the decision in the matter.


    The candidates are advised to take a printout of the e-Admit Card well in advance to avoid the last minute rush. “Important Instructions to the candidates” must be read carefully by the candidates.


    It may also be noted that entry into the Examination Venue shall be closed 10 minutes before the scheduled commencement of the Examination i.e. 09:20 A.M. for the Forenoon Session and 02:20 P.M. for the Afternoon Session. No candidate shall be allowed the entry into the Examination Venue after closure of the entry.


    Candidates should also note that they shall not be allowed to appear at any other Examination Venue except the Examination Venue mentioned in the e-Admit Card.


    Candidates are also advised to bring Black Ball Point Pen as the candidates shall be required to fill the OMR Answer Sheets and Attendance List with Black Ball Point Pen only.


    Candidates may submit representations, if any, on the questions asked in the Question Papers of this Examination to the Commission through the “Online Question Paper Representation Portal (QPRep)” only by accessing the URL: http://upsconline.nic.in/miscellaneous/QPRep/ during the period from 4 th -10 June, 2018. No representation through any other mode and after 10 th June, 2018 shall be accepted by the Commission.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Mobile phone, (even in switched off mode), pager or any electronic equipment or programmable device or storage media like pen drive, smart watches etc. or camera or Bluetooth devices or any other equipment or related accessories either in working or switched off mode capable of being used as a communication device and calculator are banned inside the Examination Hall. Any infringement of these instructions shall entail disciplinary action against the concerned candidates including debarment from future Examination / Selection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Valuable / costly items and bags are also not allowed inside the Examination Venue.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

    ******


    BB/NK/PK/SS/sk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531472) Visitor Counter : 3792
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil , Malayalam