      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad addresses the Plenary Session on ‘Media Regulation Policies: Ethics, Rules and Laws’, at the 15th Asia Media Summit 2018
      
      Media must empower the common man in an accountable manner: Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad

      Posted On: 10 MAY 2018 2:41PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Electronics & IT and Law & Justice, Sh. Ravi Shankar Prasad said today that for the Indian Government, freedom of media is integral to polity, duly recognized by the Constitution and reinforced by Judiciary in series of judgements. Addressing the 15 th Asia Media Summit here today, Shri Prasad said that the media has full right to inform, circulate, criticize, advice and counsel. The rights of Media under the Constitution are also subject to reasonable restrictions.


    On misuse of data, the Minister said India will not allow the country to become a centre of data pilferage, and that data commerce through collusive methods cannot be used to influence its electoral process. Shri Prasad said all the online companies which are in the business of data commerce must understand the nuances of accountability. He said that when the recent controversy surrounding data privacy surfaced, the Government took a very firm stand on these issues. Shri Prasad further said that accountability is integral to democracy and all institutions – the Government, the Judiciary, the Legislature and the Media – have to adhere to this principle. Referring to India becoming a very big centre of data analysis, he said that there is a need to have a proper coordination on data availability, data utility, data innovation, data anonymity and data privacy. He said that a committee headed by a retired Supreme Court Judge is looking into these issues and soon the Government would enact a data protection law.


    Dwelling upon the issue of Ethical Journalism, the Law Minister said that it must be fair, true, properly presented highlighting sights and counter sights and empowering the consumers of news in a decent and independent fashion. The Minister wondered whether the media today, under the garb of sensationalism, paid news, fake news, too much of other insidious practices is addressing to this large issue. This is a matter of debate, the Minister added.


    Supporting the principle of self-regulation by the media, Shri Prasad said that the IT act mandates that the content going through the intermediary is not dangerous, libelous and does not impinge upon the security and integrity of the country nor should it encroach upon the copyrights. On sanctity of privacy, the Minister noted that the Supreme Court had upheld privacy as part of the Fundamental Rights. But, he added that the plea of privacy cannot become a shield for the corrupt and the terrorists. The Minister elaborated that on the issues of terrorism, propagation of hatred and communalization and on the issue of promoting extremism, there has to be a global consensus that needs to be properly enforced.


    Dwelling on the challenges of social media, Shri Prasad said that the Government is committed to the freedom of press but there is a need to segregate the real from the dangerous. He said many in the Government today had fought against the emergency where freedom was trampled upon. The Minister said that the Government respects social media as it empowers the common man but the language used sometimes in this medium is a cause of concern.


    Shri Prasad further said that the internet cannot become a tool of neo-imperialism. Referring to internet as one of the finest creations of human mind, he said that it cannot remain the monopoly of a few. He said that if Internet has to be global, it must have linkages with local ideas and culture.


    Other dignitaries presenting their views on Media Regulation during the session included H.E. Mr. Hasanul Haq Inu, Minister of Information, Bangladesh, H.E. Dr. Khieu Kanharith, Minister of Information, Cambodia, Mr. Sam Seog Ko, Standing Commissioner, Communication Commission, Republic of Korea and Justice C.K. Prasad, Chairman Press Council of India. The session was moderated by Dr. Venkat Iyer, Barrister, UK.


    In all the presentations, there was a consensus on a host of issues including ensuring freedom of expression and healthy development of an independent media, while respecting individual privacy. At the same time, all the speakers highlighted the challenge of fake news and misuse of expanding cyber space for propagating cyber crimes and terrorism. The speakers also underlined the issues of cyber piracy, patent and copyright violations and a consensus was reached to tackle these problems through cooperative dialogue among different countries.


    *****


    RM/SNC/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531777) Visitor Counter : 238
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Urdu , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil