      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      National Conference of 244 New Districts under Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) to be held tomorrow
      Posted On: 03 MAY 2018 12:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development will hold National Conferenceof 244 Districts under BetiBachaoBetiPadhao (BBBP) in New Delhi tomorrow. The Nodal Officers of 244 Districts, State Nodal Officers and Senior officerswill be present in the day-long Conference. The Union Minister for Women and Child Development, SmtManeka Sanjay Gandhi would be the Chief Guest and the Minister of State for Women and Child Development,Dr.Virendra Kumar would be the Guest of Honour.


    WCD Secretary Shri Rakesh Srivastava will share the journey so far under BBBP. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Ministry of Human Resource Development will share experiences from their sectoral interventions on improving the Sex Ratio at Birth and initiatives to encourage girl child education.In an interactive session, theDistrict Collectors of select BBBP districts from different parts of the country would share the innovative interventions undertaken in the past three years.Haryana will share State Level experience. Representative civil society partners would also participate in the Conference.


    The Conference will provide an opportunity for experience sharing and will motivate the new districts to plan and execute the programme successfully. The participants in the Conference will include Principal Secretaries, Departments of WCD/Social Welfare, Education and Health from various states/UTs, and Deputy Commissioners/Collectors and District Magistrates from 244 districts.


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi announced the All India expansion of BBBP scheme in 640 districts across thecountry (as per Census 2011) on 8th March, 2018 at Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan. The new 244 Districts from across the country will be covered under Multi-Sectoral Intervention. This is in addition to the already covered 161 Districts. Remaining 235 Districts will be covered through Media campaign and advocacy outreach.


    ***


    AKR/NG/SKK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531150) Visitor Counter : 863
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Malayalam , Bengali , Tamil , Gujarati