      Vice President's Secretariat

      Peru seeks production of generic medicines by Indian companies in their country and early conclusion of Free Trade Agreement
      
      Vice President Shri Venkaiah Naidu holds extensive talks with Peruvian leadership
      
      India, Peru celebrate 55 years of diplomatic ties and resolve to improve trade relations to tap full potential
      
      Peru Says India deserves Permanent membership in UNSC in line with its global role
      
      Sign MoU for cooperation in Renewable Energy Sector

      Posted On: 12 MAY 2018 11:29AM by PIB Delhi

    Top leadership of Peru has acknowledged that their country has a lot to learn and benefit from the success story of India and resolved with India to significantly enhance trade relations as the two countries celebrated 55 years of diplomatic ties in Lima on May 11, 2018.


    Vice President Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu today held extensive talks with President, Prime Minister and senior Ministers of Peru in Lima today on a range of issues indicating specific areas for enhanced engagement. He spoke at length about India’s strength in supply of quality and cost effective generic medicines, Information Technology, defence equipment, Science & Technology, Space applications etc.


    During the delegation level talks, the Peruvian Prime Minister Mr.Cesar Villanueva Bardales, leading a delegation of four ministers and senior official noted that India is acknowledged as a leader in pharma sector and Peru could take benefit of the same. Health Minister of Peru Ms.Silvia Pessah Eljay suggested that Indian Government may do needful to enable Indian Pharma companies set up generic medicines production facilities in Peru. Peruvian side agreed to consider suggestion of Shri Naidu for hassle free registration of Indian pharma companies for supply of medicines.


    Minister of Foreign Trade and Tourism of Peru Mr.Rogers Valencia Espinoza, while speaking of the potential of bilateral trade between the two countries said Peru was keen about concluding a Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement with India. He mentioned that two rounds of discussions were already in this regard and the third round is to be held in Delhi in August this year. He stressed on the need to conclude this agreement at the earliest for mutual benefit.


    Peru’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nestor Popolizio Bardales stressed that India deserved to be a Permanent member of the United Nation’s Security Council in line with its size, role and responsibilities in the global scheme of things. He reiterated Peru’s support to India in this regard.


    Referring to the success of Information Technology Centre in Peru set up by India, the Peruvian side more such centres in other parts of the country.


    Earlier, during his talks with the President of Peru, Vice President Shri Naidu said that 55 years of diplomatic ties between the two countries is an important landmark and it was time to assess the achievements so far to chart out a clear course of action to realize the full potential.


    Peruvian President said his country is closely watching India’s progress in different sectors including its transition from an agrarian economy to being an IT leader with strong capacities in Science & Technology, space sector etc. He informed Shri Naidu that concerned ministers were asked by him to make time bond action plans for progressing on identified areas of cooperation.


    Sharing Shri Naidu’s concern about terrorism, President of Peru noted that while terrorists come out with new strategies, the global community to act together to counter terrorism in all it’s different forms and shapes.


    After the delegation level talks, India and Peru signed an Agreement on Cooperation in New and Renewable Energy. Peru is a founder member of the International Solar Alliance, established with India taking the initiative.


    Peru’s External Affairs Ministry organized a special programme in Lima commemorating the 55 years of diplomatic ties with India. Peruvian youth performed Bharat Natyam which was appreciated by Vice President Shri Venkaiah Naidu.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531947) Visitor Counter : 423