      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      “Botanic Garden will be Developed as one of the Most Distinct Gardens with Modern-Day Landscape”: Dr. Harsh Vardhan
      
      “Garden will Become Fountain Head of Knowledge for Youth and Students”: Dr. Mahesh Sharma
      
      Foundation Stone Laid for Development and Upgradation of Botanic Garden, Noida
      
      Posted On: 13 MAY 2018 7:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan has said that the Botanic Garden of Indian Republic (BGIR) Noida, will be developed as one of the most distinct botanic gardens with modern-day landscape. Speaking at the foundation-stone laying ceremony of the development and upgradation of the Botanic Garden at Noida yesterday, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that the Garden is being developed and upgraded with the objectives of collection of plant species, research, training, environment education, public awareness, aesthetics and entertainment through the protection of plant biodiversity. He added that this is also being done with a view to make the Botanic Garden, Noida, a centre of excellence in the preservation of (Rare, Endangered and Threatened(RET) and local plant species. Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that another objective is the creation of public awareness through education on plant biodiversity and its need.


    Speaking on the occasion, Minister of State, MoEF&CC, Dr. Mahesh Sharma, said that this is the largest Botanic Garden project in Delhi-NCR, which will become a fountain head of knowledge for a large number of youth and students. Dr. Sharma said that the creation of a virtual museum on the Garden’s premises will also provide the youth of the nation information on botany and the endangered plant species will also get protected. He pointed out that it is estimated that the ambitious project will cost around Rs. 400 crore. “The cost of the first phase will be completed by 2018”, Dr. Sharma stated. He reiterated the pledge to complete this projectin a time-bound manner, though the project has been delayed for almost 20 years. “This garden will be developed as an important tourist spot in the Delhi-NCR region”, Dr. Sharma said.


    Protection of plant biodiversity and natural resources is the need of the hour in the present-day context of climate change. In order to meet this objective, the Botanical Garden of India Republic (BRIG) project was started, which could help preserve the endangered vegetation in the country. The landscape of this park, spread over 163.5 acres, will be transformed. A gene bank, seed bank, herbarium unit, orchid house, cactus house, nursery, plant biodiversity, research facility, education and maintenance will be developed in the Botanic Garden.


    Uttar Pradesh Minister Shri Dara Singh Chouhan and local MLA, Shri Pankaj Singh were among others present at the foundation-stone laying ceremony.


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531993) Visitor Counter : 682
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil