      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad delivers Key note address at CxO Forum on "Standardizing the Digital Space" organized by BIS
      Posted On: 09 MAY 2018 6:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) the National Standards body of India organized a CxO Forum on "Standardizing the Digital Space" on 8 May, 2018 in New Delhi to deliberate on the key issues and challenges in the Digital space. The forum explored the opportunities, growth and challenges in standardising the digital space, in the presence of Union Minister of Law & Justice, Electronics & Information Technology, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad and Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, Shri C.R Chaudhary and CEOs/CxOs of various top IT companies. The one-of-its kind platform also had presence of dignitaries, luminaries and experts from over 35 different countries to discuss a number of key issues pertaining to the future of the IT sector in India.


    The key note address was delivered by Union Minister of Law & Justice, Electronics & Information Technology, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad. In his address, Shri Prasad highlighted rapid growth in e- Transactions, IT exports and revenue of Indian IT companies; which in turn is strengthening the digital profile of India. He stressed upon the importance of standards in the digital space and congratulated BIS for taking up the leadership role of “ISO/IEC JTC1/SC7” which is responsible for developing foundational standards of software and systems engineering.


    Shri Prasad further added that Standards should be formulated in a manner that it lays down the compliance criteria, facilitates smooth and cost effective operation thereby enabling of digital inclusion.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution Shri C. R. Chaudhary applauded BIS for its marked presence in the International standardisation through its active participation in the Standardisation work undertaken by ISO & IEC.


    Shri Amitabh Kant, CEO of the NITI Aayog opined that digital standardization needs constant evolution and ensures they do not stagnate.


    Earlier, Ms. Surina Rajan, Director General, BIS in her welcome speech highlighted the standardization efforts being made by BIS in the emerging technological areas like AI, IoT, Big data, Blockchain etc. Ms. Rajan mentioned that "Standardizing the Digital Space" is an initiative by BIS to bring the technocrats and tech-entrepreneurs in the country and global experts on the same platform to discuss and deliberate on the key issues and challenges that need to be overcome in the journey of Digital transformation and also to discuss the role of standards and regulations in "Scripting the future of IT".


    The event was organised to highlight the role of standardisation and invite participation in Standards Formulation for IT Sector. This event is in line with the 33rd plenary and working group meetings of JTC 1/SC 7 being hosted by BIS from 6th to 11th May 2018 where experts from more than 35 different countries are participating.


    APS/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531748) Visitor Counter : 342
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil