      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      North Eastern Cultural and Information Centre to come up soon in Delhi: Dr. Jitendra Singh
      
      To act as a hub for cultural-cum- convention centre for activities of North East

      Posted On: 03 MAY 2018 4:52PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh said that a North Eastern Cultural and Information Centre will come up in Delhi soon. He said this after chairing the review meeting of the “roadmap for implementation of Cabinet Approval of Schemes for North East Council” here today. Secretary, Ministry of Development of Northeastern Region (DoNER) Shri Naveen Verma, Secretary North Eastern Council (NEC) Shri Ram Muivah and senior officials of the ministry were present. The meeting reviewed the progress of various on-going projects in the North East.


    As a Central government has been giving priority to the NE region, Dr Jitendra said that this will be a new gift to the people of North East India. He said, the centre will act as a cultural convention and information hub of the northeastern region in Delhi. He said that Centre is being built on 1.32 acre land at Sector-13, Dwarka, New Delhi under the North Eastern Council (NEC) for the purpose of construction of North Eastern Cultural and Information Centre. He said that this Centre will act as a cultural and convention, information hub of the North Eastern Region in Delhi. The Minister said it will have a library-cum-reading room with material on North Eastern Region, an art gallery showcasing the North East, Exhibition hall, Research centre, Sale outlets as well guest houses. He said, currently architecture, design and planning for the project are in process. The project is expected to be completed soon at an estimated cost of Rs. 50-55 crores, he added. He said this Centre will be one of its kind in the country and will be a state-of-the-art project.


    Keeping in view the large number of NE students studying in various educational institutes, hostels are being set up for NE students. These hostels are being set up in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and a hostel exclusively for girl students from Northeast in Bengaluru University.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK/KGS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531193) Visitor Counter : 341
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali