      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Skill India organizes an Ajeevika and Kaushal Vikas Mela in Bhubaneswar Array of opportunities for youth to connect to New India vision of the country
      Posted On: 06 MAY 2018 1:17PM by PIB Delhi


    Celebrating the spirit of New India, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) and Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD), together joined hands to amplify the “Gram Swaraj Abhiyaan” of the current incumbent government which is promoting social harmony and awareness around the pro-poor initiatives of the government.


    Addressing the gathering Union Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas, Skill Development & Entrepreneurship Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, said "Today, our government has been able to complete 4 successful years of governance, with all the due support from the people of this country. Our vision of “SabkaSaath, Sabka Vikas” is now gradually seeing its impact, and we have started this campaign to bring back the focus on our “Graam,” our villages. This New India of our dreams can only be a reality if we strengthen our villages and our panchayats, the roots of our democracy. And as the Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, it is our endeavor to provide access to quality skill training at the local levels, thorugh both short term courses and long term training as well."


    "I urge all our youth, their parents and individuals of our society, to take advantage of the immense resources and schemes extended by our government. I urge them to explore opportunities in traditional skills and new age technologies, both relevant to today’s market, and both equally capable of generating sustainable livelihoods" added Shri Pradhan.


    In this regards MSDE organized a Kaushal and Rojgar Mela at New Women’s College in Khordha, Bhubaneswar where more than 5000 people from different walks of life participated. Nearly 3000 candidates registered for the Rojgar Mela (Placement Drive), which saw 1000+ candidates shortlisted by 41 leading corporates such as Eureka Forbes, Flipkart, Ola, Reliance Digital, VLCC, V Mart, Shahi Exports, Talwalkars, Lakme among others.


    More than 29 state of art multi-skill ‘Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra s’ were also launched digitally across the country by the Minister. The Minister also handed over Mudra loan acceptance letters to the youth participating at the event. He further gave certificates to 10 successful candidates trained under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) at the event.


    The Kaushal Mela organized on the sidelines of the event, saw an exhibition being put multiple stakeholders including Sector Skill Councils, Bankers, Training Partners, Industries, ITIs etc., which provided counselling for the candidates and their parents, and helped them understand various opportunities available in the skill development ecosystem.


    ***


    PP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531431) Visitor Counter : 601
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil