      Ministry of Science & Technology

      “Technology Is Destiny, but Technology must Also be Equity”, says President Kovind
      
      ‘Let us Renew the pledge to Empower the citizens through rapid growth of inclusive Technology’:
      Dr. Harsh Vardhan
      
      20TH National Technology Day 2018 Celebrated

      Posted On: 11 MAY 2018 4:18PM by PIB Delhi

    Emphasising that technology is destiny, the President, Shri Ram Nath Kovind has said that technology must also be equity and its fruits must be accessible to all. Addressing the 20 th National Technology Day celebrations at Vigyan Bhawan here today, the President said that finances and resources must be available to all technologists who wish to turn entrepreneurs and to migrate from the lab room to the shop floor. The President pointed out that gender equity must be integrated with technology production.


    Shri Kovind highlighted that the new technologies have three common attributes – (i) they offer solutions that are necessary in the Indian context and contribute to the social and economic needs of our people, (ii) they achieve all this at competitive price points and (iii) they do not compromise on quality.


    “The Government has proposed to establish Centres of Excellence to train young technologists in robotics, artificial intelligence, digital manufacture, big data analytics, quantum communication and Internet of Things. The Government is also pursuing demonstration and deployment of successful technology solutions for clean energy options”, President Kovind said.


    Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister for Science & Technology, Earth Sciences and Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan gave a call to renew the pledge to empower the citizens through rapid growth of inclusive technology. “National Technology Day is an occasion to remind ourselves of the transformative power of science & technology for the nation and society”, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said. The Minister added that such technological innovations, among others, will aid the government’s efforts to provide clean and green electric mobility.


    Striking a note of caution against complacency, Dr. Harsh Vardhan recalled the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s message to the scientific community at the 105 th Indian Science Congress in Imphal and to do research leading to development. The Minister pointed out that building on the strengths, we must let the innovation become the engine and technology as the driver for national growth. Recalling the former Prime Minister, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s slogan of “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan and Jai Vigyan”, Dr. Harsh Vardhan stated that in fact, ‘Vigyan’ (science) provides muscle to the Jawans and farmers of the country alike.


    The President, Shri Ram Nath Kovind presented awards of the Technology Development Board in three categories. The categories and the awards include –


    Category A - For successful commercialization of indigenous technology

     1. M/s Agappe Diagnostics Ltd, Erankulam, Kerala for Mispa 13, an automated cartridge-based protein analyzer;
     2. M/s Bharat Biotech International Ltd, Hyderabad, for Rotavirus vaccine - ROTAVAC.

    Category B - For successful technology commercialization by MSME

     1. M/s Synkromax Biotech Pvt Ltd, Chennai for Synkroscaff, a bovine scaffold for tissue engineering;
     2. M/s ANTS Ceramics Pvt Ltd, Vasai East, Maharashtra for high-end Zirconia ceramic products and carbon sulphur analysis crucible;
     3. M/s 3B Blackbio Biotech India Limited, Bhopal for TRUPCR: a two-step realtime BCR ABL 1 quantitative kit for detection of BCR-ABL 1 fusion transcripts in bone marrow, or peripheral blood samples.
     4. M/s Envision Scientific Privated Limited, Surat, for Albuminus DES +, a drug eluting stent for diabetic patients; and
     5. M/s Hind High Vacuum Company Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru, for 3-layer metallization on alumina substrate.

    Category C - For Technology Start-up

     1. M/s Astrome Technologies Pvt Ltd, SID, IISC, Bengaluru, for GigaMesh, a wireless communication solution;
     2. M/s CyCa Onco Solutions Pvt Ltd, KIIT, TBI, Bhubaneshwar, for CyPlatin and CyGlo for delivery of anti-cancer drug cisplatin.
     3. M/s Xcellence in Bio Innovation and Technologies (xBITS) Pvt Ltd, Jodhpur, for RightBiotic, a point-of-care device for testing the antibiotic sensitivity.

    Dr. Harsh Vardhan also launched three initiatives to mark the celebrations. The initiatives include – (i) Commercial launch of an electric charger made possible by support of Technology Development Board. (ii) Launch of the India, Science, Technology and Innovation web portal, which will have a 360 ° connect to all the activities of human resources, institutions, students, industry, public and private sector and all the other stakeholders of science and technology ecosystem. The third initiative is a web portal of Survey of India that allows the sharing of the digital map to every citizen of the country, to enable decision making for planning, development and governance. (Briefs on the three initiatives attached)


    In his welcome address, Secretary, Department of Science & Technology, Prof. Ashutosh Sharma said that the awards present stories of compelling innovative technology. Referring to the 20 th year of the celebrations, Prof. Sharma pointed out that the 20 th year is important in human life, as it provides opportunities to build upon the preparation of the teen years.


    The theme of this year’s National Technology Day celebrations is “Commercializing indigenous Technologies: Journey from Benchside to Business”.


    National Technology Day: A brief background


    The celebration of National Technology Day symbolizes India’s quest for scientific inquiry, technological creativity & innovations; and the integration of these developments into national socio-economic benefits and global presence. The day recognizes technological innovations and their successful commercialization, making fruits of research reach available to the people by awarding scientists, technocrats and companies, encouraging others to emulate them and creating micro & macro-ecosystems conducive for persistent endeavors towards technological excellence. The Day has a historical perspective, as it was on the May 11, 1998, that India achieved a major technological breakthrough by successfully carrying out nuclear tests at Pokhran. Further, the first indigenous aircraft "Hansa-3" was test-flown at Bangalore on this day and India also performed the successful test firing of the Trishul missile on the same day. Since 1999, the day is being celebrated as the “National Technology Day”.


    Technology Development Board on behalf of the Ministry of Science & Technology celebrates May 11 of every year as the “National Technology Day” to commemorate achievements of Innovations and Technological Excellence in the country.


    National Awards of Technology Development Board


    Technology Development Board (TDB) recognises the achievements of those who have commercialised their innovations successfully with an outreach to the masses for the benefit of the Society. In order to encourage innovations and to nurture technologies flow to industry for product excellence so that our Nation has the competitive edge leading to our cherished vision of developed India, TDB gives Awards every year on Technology day.


    The first National Award was instituted in the year 1999, for successful commercialization of indigenous technology by an industrial concern. Thereafter two more awards have since been introduced. There are two broad categories of Awards: One is for successful commercialisation given to an Industrial Concern and other is for Technology Start-ups for their technologies having potential for commercialisation.


    In the first category, two Awards are given: One award is given for the successful commercialisation of innovative indigenous technology: Cash award of Rs. 25 lakh and a trophy to an industrial concern which has successfully developed & commercialized an indigenous technology. In case the technology developer and commercializing organizations are different, each one would be eligible for cash prize and a trophy. The second award is for the Micro Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME’s) that have commercialised a product based on indigenous technological innovation. This award carries a cash prize of Rs. 15 lakh and a trophy each to a Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise that have successfully commercialized a product based on indigenous technology.


    In the second category, Awards are given to technology Start-ups for promising new technology with potential for commercialization.


    Click here to see Kalam fellowship


    Click here to see Lithium battery


    Click here to see Web portal


    Click here to see SOI portal


    Click here to see list of awardees


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531893) Visitor Counter : 695
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Marathi , Malayalam
    
    
    

3.