      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      DGFT has to Evolve from a Regulator to Facilitator – Suresh Prabhu
      Posted On: 03 MAY 2018 4:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation, Shri Suresh Prabhu, speaking at the Port Officers’ Meeting in New Delhi.


    A two-day meeting of port officers organized by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), of the Department of Commerce, ended today in New Delhi. The Union Minister of Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation, Shri Suresh Prabhu, addressed the regional officers from different parts of the country and urged them to reorient their thinking to be a facilitator and not a regulator.


    The Minister added that the regional officers have to take their job as a challenge and an opportunity as foreign trade is now a strategic issue for India as it not only benefits the domestic economy but also links the country with global trade. The Minister asked for greater engagement of regional officers with the state governments in order to boost exports. He urged DGFT to set up a committee headed by the chief secretary of states on all export promotion issues including logistics.


    The Minister further added that officers of DGFT in the regions should identify districts with potential to export unique products and those officers who are able to fulfil their targets will be rewarded. He urged DGFT to organize regular orientation programmes for employees at all levels so that they are aligned to the mission of DGFT to serve exporters of the country.


    During the two days’ deliberations the regional authorities of DGFT discussed various administrative issues being faced by them and measures to be taken for streamlining regulatory mechanisms for exports. During the discussions it was also decided that regional authorities of DGFT should conduct outreach programmes with exporters on all issues of the Department of Commerce.


    ***


    MM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531194) Visitor Counter : 726
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Tamil , Malayalam