      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Stricter laws not enough, time bound disposal of justice essential to prevent Crimes Against Women: MoS (Home) Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir
      Posted On: 21 MAY 2018 4:28PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir has said the Government, responding to public sentiment, recently issued Ordinance regarding Amendment to Article 376 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) making provision for stricter punishment to deal with Crimes Against Women. Addressing the inaugural session of the National Conference on “Gender Justice in Criminal Law” organized by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), here today, Shri Ahir said while laws can be made more harsh, swift disposal by Criminal Justice System can only check the crimes and also act as a deterrent to prevent its recurrence. The low conviction rates, however, continue to be a matter of grave concern, he added.


    Stating that the Government is sensitive to Women’s Safety, the Minister said the law was last amended after the horrific Nirbhaya incident but since the society at large was outraged over the recent spate of Sexual Crimes Against Minors, the Government has introduced harsher punishment including capital punishment to deal with such offences. Shri Ahir said the Government has also set stiff timeframe for investigation and swift disposal of cases by fast track courts. Under the Police Modernization programme, the Government has laid emphasis on improving the Forensic Laboratories and improve efficiency of prosecution agencies, he added.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Director General, BPR&D, Dr AP Maheshwari said the recommendations arrived at the conclusion of the daylong Conference will be placed before the Government on how to effectively deal with Crimes Against Women and Minors. In his address, Dr Ish Kumar, Director, National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) said the NCRB is in the process of creating a national registry of Crimes Against Women. The records are being sourced from the CCTNS and an agency is being hired to prepare the database. The crime rate per lakh population in India is very low at 7-8%, as compared to 27-30% in the US and 132 in South Africa, he added.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1532934) Visitor Counter : 238
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil