      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      “Response of Developed Nations in Combating Climate Change Inadequate”: Dr Harsh Vardhan
      
      Environment Minister’s Intervention at the 26th basic Ministerial meeting of Environment Ministers in Durban

      Posted On: 20 MAY 2018 8:45PM by PIB Delhi

    India has said that the response of developed nations for greater action in combating climate change is inadequate. Makingan intervention at the 26th BASIC Ministerial Meeting of Environment Ministers in Durban today, Union Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr Harsh Vardhan said that the world is at a critical stage in combating climate change.


    “We are at a very critical stage, both in our efforts to combat climate change and in the negotiations. There is an evident need for greater action and we find that the response of the developed countries is still not adequate,” Dr Harsh Vardhan pointed out. The Minister urged the developed countries need to take a leadership role in terms of mitigation and providing means of implementation to developing countries. “While we talk about our actions, it is equally important to emphasise that the ambition of the developing countries needs to be supported and sustained, predictable and adequate finance, technology and capacity-building support to be provided by the developed countries,” Dr Harsh Vardhan added.


    The Minister told his counterparts from BASIC countries and Mr. Michal Kurtyka of Poland, who will take over as next COP 24 parties, that India has shown the vision and the political will to act. He said that the Prime Minister, ShriNarendraModi’s vision is to ensure sustainable development, while protecting the most vulnerable from the effects of climate change. Later, addressing a press conference, Dr Harsh Vardhan said that the BASIC group has decided to preserve the integrity of Paris Agreement, including the principles of Common But Differentiated Responsibilities and Equity.


    Dr Harsh Vardhan reiterated his appeal to make joint efforts to create a societal movement in combating climate change through “Green Good Deeds”.


    The Basic countries isa bloc of four countries – Brazil, South Africa, India and China, formed by an agreement on November 28, 2009. The four committed to act jointly at the Copenhagen climate summit.


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532880) Visitor Counter : 385
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu