      Ministry of Finance

      Permissible limits on borrowings under Fiscal Consolidation roadmap needed to be equally applicable to Centre and States
      
      
      
      Posted On: 17 MAY 2018 6:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The permissible limits on borrowings under Fiscal Consolidation roadmap needed to be equally applicable to Centre and States in the context of overall macroeconomic framework, opined the leading economists in a meeting with Fifteenth Finance Commission held here today. Economists further opined that it would be realistic to use contemporary population data but weightage should be assigned to population and also rewards for population stabilization policy. It could be appropriately determined by the commission. Commission needs to balance equity with efficiency.


    The Fifteenth Finance Commission continued its interaction with economists and domain experts today. Significant issues raised today included:

     1. New context post abolition of Planning Commission which has altered the traditional system of resource allocation and consequently abolition of distinction between Plan and Non-Plan funds
     2. Furthermore, issues of uncertainty pertaining to GST needed to be fully factored in.
     3. Issues of rewards for past performance needed to be balanced with incentivizing future performance.
     4. Inadequacy of data and its reliability constituted a significant handicap in realistic revenue projectionand other key variables like employment as well as in determining measurable criteria.
     5. The taxation capacity of states and any formula on devolution needed to be formed by equity, justice and uniformity.
     6. While the TOR were broad ranging, the commission has significant latitude defining its own procedure of work under the Constitution.
     7. There were several key challenges in making robust projections on GDP, pension liability, revenue realization and availability of resources beyond devolution for grants-in-aid.
     8. State finances were stressed inter alia due to the behavior of Power Sector and implication of UDAY bonds on interest liability of states.
     9. The future of Centrally Sponsored Schemes remained problematic with changing pattern of funding and a holistic view needs to be taken.

    The Chairman summing the discussion felt that continued engagement with Domain Experts over the coming months will help commission in firming up the approach before reaching tentative conclusions both on the vertical and horizontal devolution of revenue. Besides an approach for local bodies and panchayats which were both realistic and would genuinely deliver the intended resources to the beneficiaries.


    The Commission was chaired by N. K. Singh and other members were also present. Participants in today’s interaction included –

                                                                            
S.No  Name                    Designation                                   
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
1     Dr V Bhaskar            Retired IAS                                   
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
2     Prof. Bharat Ramaswami  Professor, Indian Statistical Institute       
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
3     Dr. Arvind Subramanian  Chief Economic Adviser, Ministry of Finance   
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
4     Dr. Pronab Sen          Country Director, International Growth Center 
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
5     Prof. Pami Dua          Professor, Delhi School of Economics          
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
6     Prof. N.R. Bhanumurthy  Professor, NIPFP                              
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
7     Dr. Kirit Parikh        Chairman, IRADe                               
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
8     Dr. Indira Rajaraman    Economist                                     
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
9     Dr. M. Govinda Rao      Emeritus Professor, NIPFP                     
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
10    Dr. D.K. Srivastava     Economist                                     
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
11    Sh. T.N. Ninan          Chairman, Business Standard                   
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
12    Prof. Alakh N Sharma    Director, Institute for Human Development     
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
13    Sh. Neelkanth Mishra    MD, Credit Suisse and India Equity Strategist 
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
14    Dr. Arvind Virmani      Founder (Chintan) and President FSI           
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
15    Dr. Sanjeev Gupta       Deputy Director,Fiscal Affairs Department, IMF
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
16    Dr. Pinaki Chakraborty  Professor, NIPFP                              
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
17    Dr. Surjit S. Bhalla    Part time Member of PMEAC                     
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
18    Dr. Shankar Acharya     Honorary Professor, ICRIER                    
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
19    Dr. Abhijit Sen         Economist                                     
                                                                            
                                                                            

    First Meeting of the Advisory Council held


    Later, Commission also held the first meeting with the Advisory Council to get inputs on various issues under the purview of the Commission. These included political economy behind the Centrally Sponsored Schemes, future of CSS, methods required for long term financing of schemes, stabilization of GST.


    DSM/RM/AM


    ****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1532647) Visitor Counter : 408
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
9.