      Vice President's Secretariat

      Swachh Bharat is a prerequisite for establishing a Swasth Bharat: Vice President
      
      Doctors should maintain the highest standards of ethics and integrity;
      
      
      Addresses Convocation of Lady Hardinge Medical College

      Posted On: 18 MAY 2018 12:24PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Swachh Bharat is a prerequisite for establishing a Swasth Bharat. He was addressing the Convocation of Lady Hardinge Medical College, here today. The Minister of State for Health & Family Welfare, Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey, the Minister of State for Health & Family Welfare, Smt. Anupriya Patel and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that the job of faculty members does not end by merely imparting medical knowledge and skills but entails a more onerous responsibility of moulding the young minds into conscientious citizens with uncompromising integrity, high moral and ethical standards. It is said that a person, who plans for a year, sows grains, the one who plans for 10 years, plants fruit-bearing trees, and the one who plans for generations, develops human beings!, he added.


    The Vice President said that it is time for all public health experts, healthcare professionals, local bodies and communities to join hands in promoting hygiene and sanitation in a big way to build a Swachh Bharat, a prerequisite for establishing a Swasth Bharat. He further said that lack of adequate medical facilities in the rural areas and the acute shortage of doctors and para-medical personnel across the country is a challenge. We need human resource in the health sector - whether it is a medical college or the paramedical staff, the country needs them in large numbers, he added.


    The Vice President said that the Doctors are considered next to God in our country and it is the cardinal responsibility of all those entering the medical profession to uphold the trust and confidence of the patients, who seek treatment from them. He advised the Doctors to maintain the highest standards of ethics and integrity at every stage. I am sure that all the students of the Lady Hardinge Medical College will carry on the legacy of this prestigious institute and contribute towards building a healthy India, he added.


    The Vice President said that in the classical Indian thought the doctors are revered as gods Vaidyo Naarayano Harihi . It is the ability to listen, ability to diagnose the problem and the ability to heal that imparts this divine touch to the noble profession you all are engaged in, he added.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “ I am extremely delighted to be a part of this convocation ceremony of the prestigious Lady Hardinge Medical College, which was established more than 100 years ago. I convey my greetings and best wishes to all the graduates, post graduates, their parents and teachers on this momentous occasion.


    In the classical Indian thought the doctors are revered as gods “ Vaidyo Naarayano Harihi ”. It is the ability to listen, ability to diagnose the problem and the ability to heal that imparts this divine touch to the noble profession you all are engaged in. Training of young professionals in the sciences and art of medicine is one of the most sacred duties one can ever perform. You are not only imparting knowledge and helping students imbibe skills but you are also facilitating the internalization of a set of values. Patience, understanding, empathy, soothing expression and skilful assessment are crucial for a successful career in medicine. These attitudes and behavioural traits need nurturing, they have to be ‘modelled’ by seniors and have to be ‘lived’ by students. The health of our country is being moulded in the medical institutions like yours.


    Dear faculty members, your job does not end by merely imparting medical knowledge and skills but entails a more onerous responsibility of moulding the young minds into conscientious citizens with uncompromising integrity, high moral and ethical standards. This is all the more important in the present times when the image of the medical profession has been dented by the perception that it has become highly commercialised.


    Since attaining Independence, India has made great strides in various fields from producing enough food to feed more than 1.3 billion people to becoming one of the leading space faring nations. However, the country is still facing many problems like poverty, illiteracy, atrocities against women and terrorism, to name a few. Today, the people of the country need to once again unite to overcome various challenges and build a New India.


    With about 65 per cent of the population below 35 years, we need to fully tap this demographic capital in various fields to fast track the progress of the country.


    It is said that a person, who plans for a year, sows grains, the one who plans for 10 years, plants fruit-bearing trees, and the one who plans for generations, develops human beings! Colleges like Lady Hardinge Medical College have been striving to develop good doctors and good human beings, so that through education and culture, a nation of strong men and women is built and generations can reap its benefits!


    Sisters and brothers, today the nation’s health sector is a cause for concern. We are facing the twin burdens of communicable and non-communicable diseases. Although polio, tetanus and small pox were successfully eliminated, diseases like TB, malaria, chikangunya and dengue are still prevalent. Also lot more efforts are needed to further bring down IMR and MMR indices across the country. It is time for all public health experts, healthcare professionals, local bodies and communities to join hands in promoting hygiene and sanitation in a big way to build a “Swachh Bharat”, a prerequisite for establishing a “Swasth Bharat”.


    Other major concerns that need to be addressed by the government and other stakeholders are the lack of adequate medical facilities in the rural areas and the acute shortage of doctors and para-medical personnel across the country. We need human resource in the health sector--whether it is a medical college or the paramedical staff, the country needs them in large numbers.


    One of the ways to overcome shortage of doctors, particularly in rural areas is to make it mandatory for MBBS graduates to serve in rural areas before granting the first promotion to them.


    The private sector must not only supplement the efforts of the government in bridging the urban-rural divide in the health sector, but must adopt a more humane and philanthropic approach and ensure that healthcare is affordable and accessible.


    Sisters and Brothers, India is lagging behind several countries in research output. Medical colleges like yours must accord highest priority to this aspect. In fact, translational research is of utmost importance in the medical field so that that people get benefited. Dear students, you must remember that not many have had the benefit of such privileged education like yours. You therefore have a greater responsibility in building a healthy India. Knowledge and modern technology are your instruments to advance medical sciences and prevent diseases.


    Doctors are considered next to God in our country and it is the cardinal responsibility of all those entering the medical profession to uphold the trust and confidence of the patients, who seek treatment from them.


    As regards affordability of medical care, it is a fact that medical costs are mostly met by out-of-pocket expenses by the people. For many poor and middle class families, hospitalization means disposing of family silver and getting into debt trap.


    In a laudable initiative, the government has started Ayushman Bharat – National Health Protection scheme to provide universal health care to 500 million poor and vulnerable people. I am happy that several State Governments too have designed their own health insurance schemes so that the poor and needy sections are not denied access to medical treatment.


    Dear students, as you step out of the portals of this prestigious institution, remember that you are a member of a noble profession and always remain committed to upholding the Hippocratic Oath.


    Maintain the highest standards of ethics and integrity at every stage. I am sure that all the students of the Lady Hardinge Medical College will carry on the legacy of this prestigious institute and contribute towards building a healthy India.


    I wish you all a happy, healthy and blessed life ahead!


    JAI HIND! ”


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1532711) Visitor Counter : 659
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Urdu , Bengali , Tamil