      Ministry of Culture

      Major conservation, Up gradation and development works by ASI underway at the Purana Qila complex in New Delhi
      CAC section at Purana Qila being upgraded to setup museum gallery of invaluable collection of artefacts for wider Public viewing

      Posted On: 20 MAY 2018 11:11AM by PIB Delhi

    The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has taken up several important conservation, restoration, Up-Gradation & development works at the Historical Purana Qila in New Delhi.


    In a unique initiative, the ASI has taken up conservation and upgradation of Central Antiquity Collection Section (CAC) which spread in the cells along the periphery of the fortification. The CAC section is being designed into a modern gallery which will display for the first time ever artefacts and pottery from Harappa, Mohenjo-daro, Taxila, Chanhu-daro and Central Asia as well as from Indian sides like Kalibangan, Hastinapur, Arikamedu, Tamluk etc. It has been established that the total collection of pottery and artefacts of CAC Section at Purana Qila is over two lakhs.


    Major development work has also been undertaken for reviving by desilting the moat area around the Purana Qila which is likely to be completed soon. Similarly, illumination of the magnificent mosque and other structures at the Purana Qila will also be done as in case of other historical monuments. The work of construction of toilet complex, public drinking water facilities, fixing red sandstone dustbins, developing parking facility, installation of publication counter is also in progress on a war footing. The turnstile gates for entry and exit are already provided near booking office and are working satisfactorily. Similarly, development of the garden in nearly 8 hectares of area inside the Purana Qila premises, stone benches, cleaning up the debris are other works undertaken to give a total facelift to the prime tourist destination.


    The work of conservation of excavated remains is also in progress to protect it from direct environmental effects.


    *****


    NB/PS/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532863) Visitor Counter : 260