      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      J&K Health Minister calls on Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 16 MAY 2018 6:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Jammu & Kashmir Minister for Health & Medical Education, Dr Devinder Kumar Manyal, called on Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today and discussed a wide range of issues related to healthcare and medical education in the State.


    Dr Jitendra Singh brought to the notice of the Health Minister, the widely prevalent complaint of non-availability of doctors at various Primary Health Centres and also at several district hospitals. He was of the opinion that a judicious policy will have to be adopted to ensure the presence of doctors at their respective places of posting. To overcome the shortage of doctors at peripheral health centres, he suggested that a mechanism could be adopted wherein such Medicos who had obtained admission in medical colleges against RBA or LOC quota could be strictly asked to go back and serve in the same area for the initial years of their service.


    Dr Jitendra Singh also referred to the Maharashtra pattern where any Medico, who wishes to leave the State after obtaining MBBS or MD degree from a State Medical College, is expected to deposit a heavy amount as compensation to the State ex-chequer, in lieu of the loss caused as a result of his departure from the State after obtaining a degree.


    In view of the Government of India's drive to set up Dialysis units for kidney patients across the country, Dr Jitendra Singh said, it may not be practically possible to have so many Nephrologists available and therefore, the State Government could depute its Physicians for short-term training to carry out dialysis. He said, he had done this experiment in the Northeast by introducing a new initiative two years ago, wherein, from each of the eight States of the region, the Ministry of DoNER deputes one physician and one surgeon each for a six months' training in Oncology at the country's leading Adyar Cancer Institute in Chennai, so as to be able to cater to a very high prevalence of cancer, particularly head and neck region cancer, in the North Eastern States. On the same lines, short-term trainings could also be arranged to gain expertise in Radiology, Ultrasonography and other clinical streams, he added.


    During the meeting, the issue of having more transparency and accountability in allotment of fair price shops within hospital premises also came up.


    Dr Manyal requested Dr Jitendra Singh to use his good offices for arranging Central funds for purchase of latest hi-tech equipment including latest generation MRI machines, etc. for the State-run hospitals. He also sought Dr Jitendra Singh's advice and support in opening up a chain of generic medicine outlets at affordable prices and said that since Dr Singh was himself a renowned clinician, he could also offer his professional inputs in this regard.


    Dr Manyal also gave Dr Jitendra Singh an update about the current status of the teaching faculty in the Government Medical Colleges of the State.


    *****


    BB/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1532420) Visitor Counter : 81
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu