      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Registration for Swachh Bharat Summer Internship Extended Apply by 15th June 2018
      Posted On: 15 MAY 2018 6:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The last date for registration for Swachh Bharat Summer Internship, a privileged scheme for the country’s youth to associate formally with Swachh Bharat Mission and also earn career benefits, has been extended. Students of Higher Education institutions and members of NYKS can now register for the internship till 15 th June 2018. Earlier the last date for registration was till 15 th May 2018. The extension has been given to facilitate the youth across the country, particularly those in colleges who would be pre-occupied with academic matters and examinations.


    Students and NYKS youth can, now, continue to sign up for Swachh Bharat Summer Internship by logging on to the portal ( www.sbsi.mygov.in ). Under this scheme the interns, are required to complete at least 100 hours of sanitation related work in villages. This would qualify them for Swachh Bharat Certificates. Those who complete the internship with additional, specified outputs would also gain 2 curriculum credits specially allowed by UGC. Additionally, top performers would receive awards at various levels. The period for taking up Swachh Bharat Summer Internship has been kept any time before 31st July 2018.


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, announced the launch of Swachh Bharat Summer Internship (SBSI) during his Mann Ki Baat address on 29 th April 2018. Following his call, thousands of college students and NYKS youth have already joined the programme to contribute to the cause of Swachh Bharat. The scheme is sponsored by Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation (MDWS) in association with Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) and Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports (MYAS).


    <><><><><>


    AR/SNC/SD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532180) Visitor Counter : 968
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil