      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      NMCG asks DDA to expedite "Asita", its Yamuna River Front Development Project
      
      DG Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra inspects the progress of work
      
      "Asita" aims to restore, revive and rejuvenate the river’s floodplains
      Posted On: 19 MAY 2018 2:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The Director General of the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra inspected the Yamuna River Front Development (RFD) project being implemented by Delhi Development Authority (DDA) today, and asked officials to expedite the work.


    Yamuna RFD project aims to restore, revive and rejuvenate the river’s floodplains and make them accessible to the people of Delhi. River Front “walks”, a major component of the project, will enable people to develop a relationship with river Yamuna.


    A special focus of the project is on reviving the river’s bio-diversity in the National Capital.


    Shri Mishra along with other officials visited the sites that fall in the area being developed as first phase of the project on the western bank of Yamuna spreading from Old Railway Bridge to ITO Barrage. Followed by a detailed inspection of area near Vijay Ghat, the inspection team took stock of the progress of work at locations near DTC depot and the abandoned Rajghat power plant. A tree plantation activity was also undertaken on the occasion.


    The comprehensive project to restore, rejuvenate and revive Yamuna floodplains was approved by the Principal Committee constituted by the Hon’ble NGT. The project is given the name “Asita” which is another name of river Yamuna.


    The project envisages creating a green buffer area approx. 300mts wide along the river edge with species of riverine ecology. Besides, a wide belt of 150mts along the peripheral roads will be developed as greenways for public amenities that will include a continuous trail of pathways and cycle tracks.


    To revive the ecosystem of the floodplains, wetlands will be created to store the flood waters and also to improve the groundwater recharge which will eventually result in flourishing of biodiversity in the floodplains.


    An environmentally conscious approach for integration of the river into the urban fabric of the city has been adopted. A people-friendly bio-diversity zone will be created for people to interact freely with the river’s eco-system.


    Executive Director (Projects), NMCG, Mr. Hitesh Kumar S. Makwana, Additional Commissioner, Landscape, Ms. Poonam Diwan, Chief Engineer, East Zone, DDA, Mr. Sanjeev Arya, Principal Commissioner, Horticulture & Landscape, Mr. Shri Pal and Advisor to Vice-Chairman, DDA Ms. Savita Bhandari were also part of the inspection team.


    DG, NMCG Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra being briefed about the Yamuna RFD project during the inspection.


    Water bodies/Wetlands like these are being developed under the project


    Greening the Yamuna floodplains, an important component of the project, being focused upon.


    …


    NP/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532825) Visitor Counter : 445