      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDMA reviews preparedness of States to deal with thunderstorms and lightning
      Posted On: 15 MAY 2018 5:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) reviewed the situation in the wake of the thunderstorms, lightning and squall that recently hit various parts of the country, for better early warning and preparedness.


    In a video conference held with various stakeholders yesterday, the Authority enquired about the timeliness and adequacy of early warning messages issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). States expressed satisfaction over the accuracy of these messages and informed that the timely warning enabled them to put preparedness measures in place, and save many lives.


    Assessing the damage and destruction caused by the recent incidents, the meeting also discussed ways to reduce the impact of such events in future. NDMA also asked the States to share a report on the relief measures taken by them.


    IMD now shares localised and specific warnings with the States, which are widely disseminated using various modes of communication such as mass SMSes, radio, Television and social media. Some State governments have been able to send out these warnings right up to the Panchayat levels by leveraging the mobile numbers available in voter databases.


    Simple Do's and Don'ts for thunderstorms and lightning are also widely circulated. NDMA has also shared short audio-video awareness generation material with States. These Do's and Don'ts as well as the videos have been translated by the States into their local languages and are being used for creating greater public awareness.


    Representatives of Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Jharkhand, Tripura, Chandigarh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Delhi and West Bengal attended the meeting.


    Relief Commissioners of Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal, - the states which reported the maximum damage during the lightning strikes and thunderstorms on Sunday, 13 th May participated in the meeting through videoconferencing.


    Representatives from Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), IMD, Central Water Commission (CWC) and Doordarshan were also present.


    This is the third meeting conducted by NDMA for management of thunderstorms, lightning and squall. Earlier, two meetings were held on May 11, 2018 and May 4, 2018, which has resulted in improvement of early warning and preparedness measures.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532160) Visitor Counter : 222
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil