      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      ‘Green Good Deeds’ Movement Launched by Dr Harsh Vardhan Gets Global Recognition
      
      BRICS Ministerial on Environment Includes Green Good Deeds in its Official Agenda

      Posted On: 19 MAY 2018 10:18AM by PIB Delhi

    Green Good Deeds, the societal movement launched by the Union Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr Harsh Vardhan, to protect environment and promote good living in the country, has found acceptance by the global community. The ongoing BRICS Ministerial on Environment at Durban, South Africa, has agreed to include “Green Good Deeds” in its official agenda in the next Ministerial in Brazil and another meeting in Russia”, Dr Harsh Vardhansaid.Reacting to the adoption of Green Good Deeds by BRICS Ministerial on Environment, Dr Harsh Vardhan said, international conferences on Environment had been deliberating and adopting declarations. However, he wondered how these declarations can be put to practice at the ground level, involving every section of the society. “Green Good Deeds” is an idea to take it to the people and get them involved,” the Minister added.


    Earlier, in his opening remarks at the Ministerial, Dr Harsh Vardhan had urged the grouping to jointly work for developing a movement around Green Good Deeds.“In India, we are trying to develop a societal movement of Green Good Deeds, which are small positive actions to be performed by individuals or organisations to strengthen the cause of environmental protection,” Dr HarshVardhan had told the gathering yesterday.


    There was wide acceptance to the suggestion and acting Deputy Executive Director,UN Environment (UNEP) representative at the conclave, Mr. Jorge Laguna-Celis, lauded the initiative.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan had formally launched the nation-wide campaign in January 2018. He enlisted the cooperation of thousands of people – students, teachers, voluntary organisations, Residents Welfare Associations and professionals to adopt these deeds.The Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change had drawn up a list of over 500 Green Good Deeds and asked people to alter their behaviour to Green Good Behaviour to fulfil their Green Social Responsibility. These small, positive actions, to be performed by individuals or organisations to strengthen the cause of environmental protection have been put up on a mobile App named “Dr Harsh Vardhan”.


    ***


    HK/SRD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532823) Visitor Counter : 1214