      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      ACC Appointments and Approval
      Posted On: 18 MAY 2018 8:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the following appointments:


    (i) (a) Shri Binoy Kumar, IAS (TG:83), Special Secretary, Logistics, Department of Commerce as Officer on Special Duty in the Ministry of Steel. The officer will take over as Secretary, Ministry of Steel on superannuation of Smt. Aruna Sharma, IAS (MP:82) on 31.08.2018;


    (b) Shri Binoy Kumar will continue to hold additional charge of the post of Special Secretary, Logistics, Department of Commerce until 31.07.2018;


    (ii) Smt Nilam Sahwney, IAS (AP:84), Secretary, Central Vigilance Commission as Secretary, Department of Social Justice & Empowerment;


    (iii) Smt Rina Ray, IAS (UT:84), Special Secretary, Department of School Education & Literacy as Secretary, Department of School Education & Literacy on superannuation of Shri Anil Swarup, IAS (UP:81) on 30.06.2018;


    (iv) Shri Amit Khare, IAS (JH:85), presently in the Cadre, as Secretary, Department of Information & Broadcasting on superannuation of Shri N.K. Sinha, IAS (BH:80) on 31.05.2018;


    (v) Smt. Pushpa Subramanyam, IAS (TG:85), Special Secretary, Ministry of Textiles as Officer on Special Duty in the Ministry of Food Processing Industries. The officer will take over as Secretary, Ministry of Food Processing Industries on superannuation of Shri J.P Meena, IAS (AM:83) on 31.08.2018;


    (vi) Shri Deepak Khandekar, IAS (MP:85), presently in the Cadre, as Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs on superannuation of Smt. Leena Nair, IAS (TN-82) on 30.06.2018;


    (vii) Shri Anup Wadhawan, IAS (UK:85), Special Secretary, Department of Commerce as Officer on Special Duty in the Department of Commerce. The officer will take over as Secretary, Commerce on superannuation of Smt. Rita Teotia, IAS (GJ:81) on 31.07.2018;


    (viii) Dr M.M. Kutty, IAS (UT:85), Special Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs as Officer on Special Duty in the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas. The officer will take over as Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas on superannuation of Shri K.D.Tripathi, IAS (AM: 80) on 30.06.2018;


    (ix) Shri Sailesh, IAS (AM:85), Registrar General of India as Secretary, Department of Official Language. The officer will continue to hold additional charge of the post of Registrar General of India.


    (x) Smt Veena Ish, IAS (AP:85), Additional Secretary, Department of Land Resources as Special Secretary, Department of Land Resources, by temporarily upgrading the post;


    (xi) Shri J. Rama Krishna Rao, IAS (BH:85), Secretary. National Commission for Minorities as Secretary, National Commission for Minorities in the rank and pay of Secretary, by temporarily upgrading the post:


    (xii) Shri Pawan Kumar Agarwal, IAS (WB:85), Chief Executive Officer, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) as Chief Executive Officer, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), in the rank and pay of Secretary, by temporarily upgrading the post;


    (xiii) Shri Sanjay Bhatia, IAS (MH:85), Chairman, Mumbai Port Trust as Chairman, Mumbai Port Trust in the rank and pay of Secretary, by temporarily upgrading the post;


    (xiv) Shri Yogendra Tripathi, IAS (KN:85), Chairman & Managing Director, Food Corporation of India as Chairman & Managing Director, Food Corporation of India, in the rank and pay of Secretary, by temporarily upgrading the post:


    (xv) Shri Atanu Chakraborty, IAS (GJ:85), Director General of Hydrocarbons as Secretary, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management;


    (xvi) Shri Saraswati Prasad, IAS (AM:85), Additional Secretary & Financial Adviser, Ministry of Steel as Special Secretary & Financial Adviser, Ministry of Steel, by temporarily upgrading the post;


    (xvii) Smt Shalini Prasad, IAS (UP:85), Additional Secretary, Panchayati Raj as Special Secretary, Panchayati Raj, by temporarily upgrading the post;


    (xviii) Shri Sumeet Jerath, IAS (AM:85), Additional Secretary & Financial Adviser, Ministry of External Affairs as Special Secretary & Financial Adviser, Ministry of External Affairs, by temporarily upgrading the post;


    (xix) Smt Usha Sharma, IAS (RJ:85), Director General, Archaeological Survey of India as Director General, Archaeological Survey of India, in the rank and pay of Secretary, by temporarily upgrading the post;


    (xx) Shri Heera Lal Samariya, IAS (TG:85), Additional Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment as Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment;


    (xxi) Shri Rabindra Panwar, IAS (BH:85), Additional Secretary & Financial Adviser, Ministry of Home Affairs as Special Secretary & Financial Adviser, Ministry of Home Affairs, by temporarily upgrading the post;


    (xxii) Shri N. Baijendra Kumar, IAS (CG:85), CMD, National Mineral Development Corporation as CMD, National Mineral Development Corporation in the rank and pay of Secretary, by temporarily upgrading the post;


    (xxiii) Shri G.C. Murmu, IAS (GJ:85), Additional Secretary. Department of Revenue as Special Secretary, Department of Revenue, by temporarily upgrading the post:


    (xxiv) Shri Arun Goel, IAS (PB:85), Additional Secretary & Financial Adviser, Ministry of Labour and Employment as Additional Secretary, Ministry of Culture until completion of his extended tenure ie.03.05.2019 or until further orders, whichever is earlier.


    Further, the ACC has approved the proposal for appointment of Shri Anil Kumar Jha, CMD, Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd as CMD, Coal India Ltd up to the date of his superannuation (31.01.2020) or until further orders, whichever is earlier.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1532820) Visitor Counter : 476