      Ministry of Defence

      RRM Visits Republic of Nauru
      Posted On: 18 MAY 2018 3:59PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr. Subhash Bhamre is on a three-day official visit to Republic of Nauru from 16 May 2018. He attended the 50 th anniversary celebrations of its Constitution Day on 17 May 2018 as the Chief Guest.


    On his maiden visit to the country, Dr Bhamre was introduced to the Nauruan Cabinet by the President Mr Baron Divavesi Waqa followed by a detailed meeting chaired by the President. During this meeting, wide-ranging discussions were held covering the entire gamut of bilateral relationship and specific subjects concerning the respective ministries of the government of Nauru were discussed to further enhance and deepen the existing excellent bilateral relations between the two countries. The two sides discussed projects relating to Climate Change, Renewable Energy, Health, Education, Capacity Building, Infrastructure etc.


    President Waqa hosted a State Banquet in commemoration of Nauru’s Constitution Day. Dr Bhamre, in his speech, hailed the wise and farsighted leadership of President Waqa and called India and Nauru as “friends, who have transcended the geographical barriers of great distances and have come together to jointly face the common challenges”. The RRM later presented a copy of the Indian Constitution to President Waqa, with compliments of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. President Waqa thanked and conveyed his gratitude and warm personal regards to the Prime Minister of India. Dr Bhamre declared that “two countries intend to take this cooperation and these bonds of friendship to even greater heights under the able stewardship of our two great leaders – President Waqa in Nauru and Prime Minister Modi in India”.


    Nauru will be hosting the 49 th Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Meeting in September 2018 and Dr Bhamre conveyed that India will be offering 22 Mahindra SUVs and two Tata buses worth $ 706,000 to Nauru as per their request for this meeting.


    Dr Bhamre visited Nauru’s Rehabilitation Corporation, Nauru Port Authority to see the port facilities and Nauru Police Force Headquarters. India earlier supported Nauru with police uniforms for the Nauru Police Force on the occasion of the 50 th Anniversary of the Independence of Nauru on 31 January, 2018.


    The RRM interacted with the small Indian community in Nauru over Lunch. Dr Bhamre assured Government of India’s steadfast commitment to Indian citizens and persons of Indian origin wherever they are in the world.


    NAo/Nampi/Rajib/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532745) Visitor Counter : 242