      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Passing out Parade of CRPF’s Bastariya Battalion tomorrow
      Posted On: 20 MAY 2018 5:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The much awaited ‘Bastariya Battalion’ of CRPF is ready for Anti Naxal operation’s (ANO) in Chhattisgarh. Soon after the Passing Out Parade (PoP)of the new recruits to be held in Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh tomorrow.The ‘Bastariya’ jawans will be deployed in core area to add teeth to the anti-naxal operations of CRPF in the naxal-infested Bastar division of Chhattisgarh. Numbered 241, this new battalion of CRPF carries the moniker ‘Bastariya Battalion’ for the special reason that it comprises of youths, mostly scouted from the four highly naxal infested Bijapur, Dantewada, Narayanpur and Sukmadistricts of Chhattisgarh. Another remarkable feature of the battalion is itsaqequate female representation which is in sync with the Government’s policy of 33% reservation for women.


    Though the sanctioned strength of this innovative battalion is 743, yet in the first phase as many as 739 candidate were selected in a special recruitment drivebetween mid-October 2016 to late January 2017, conducted by the CRPF in the Bastar region. However, finally a total of 534 candidatesincluding 189 female recruits underwent specialized training at ATC Bilaspur and ATC Ambikapur spanning over 44 long weeks. The training includedguerilla warfare, camouflage, living off the land and all those tricks of the trade that involve jungle operations. These jawans, after the PoP, will be deployed in the core areas of Chattisgarh to fight the naxals alongside the normal GD Bnsand CoBRABns of CRPF.


    The ‘Bastariya Battalion’ that came into existence on1st April 2017, has been created to enhance local representation in CRPF’s combat lay-out in the Bastar area besides providing the ‘Bastriya’ youths a full-proof platform for employment. Accordingly, its recruitment process too carried some unique features. While the physical standards of height and weight were relaxed to give a fair chance to the local aspirants, CRPF also walked yet another extra mile to provide pre-educational and physical training to the local youths through Civic Action Programmes so as to maximize their ability and eligibility for induction into the special formation .


    Armed with about a year’s rigorous training and so many years of geo-spatial experience of their own soil, these combat-ready jawans of CRPF are all poised to switch from their training ground to the battle ground in Bastar.


    ***


    BB/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532871) Visitor Counter : 274
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu