      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Piyush Goyal Reviews Coal Production and Dispatches to Generate Adequate Power Supply for the Country
      
      Stressed on the Necessity for Pithead Power Plants to Run at 100 % PLF.
      
      Urged States to Use Provisions Under “Flexibility of Utilization of Coal” Rules.
      
      Emphasized the need to Improve the Turnaround Time of Rakes
      
      Officials of Railways, Coal and Power Ministries to Work in Close Coordination with Chief Secretaries and Power Secretaries of States.
      
      Urged that Team Work and Better Coordination among Ministries to Ensure 24X7 Power Supply for the People of India.

      Posted On: 18 MAY 2018 3:39PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of Railways and Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal chaired a detailed review meeting with Shri R.K. Singh, Minister of State (IC) Power and New & Renewable Energy and with top officials of Ministries of Coal, Railways and Power in New Delhi today.


    In the meeting, review of Power supply requirement during the ongoing summer and forthcoming winter season was carried out. Various short term, medium term and long term measures were discussed in detail to improve the coal stock position in Power Plants of the country.


    Comprehensive review of targets for coal production and dispatches by the coal companies is carried out.


    Shri Piyush Goyal stressed on the necessity to increase Plant Load Factor (PLF) of various Power Plants of the country. He said that all pithead plants with sufficient coal supply should run at 100% PLF. He expressed the desire to hold fortnightly meeting of the ministries involved, to review the power situation in the country.


    He stressed on the need for States located far from mines to use provisions under “Flexibility of utilization of Coal” rules, so that this coal can be used by those power stations near the coal source . Gujarat and Maharashtra have already been using these provisions. This will enable cheaper power to the respective States and efficient utilization of rolling stock enabling coal supply for other power stations.


    He gave clear instructions to the officials of the three ministries to keep a close vigil on the power production and supply situation in the country and to keep in close touch with Chief Secretaries and Power Secretaries of the States for this purpose.


    Shri Goyal expressed the need to improve the turnaround time of rakes by better scheduling of trains and optimum utilization of traffic blocks. He expressed the need to rationalize operational and maintenance practices on the high density routes of Indian Railways.


    He stressed on reducing terminal detention of wagons inside Power Plants and Coal sidings to generate extra capacity.


    Last but not the least, he emphasized that team effort, better coordination between Ministries involved and the rationalization of work procedures will lead to generation of extra capacity within the existing system and ensure 24X7 power supply for the people of India.


    *****


    SBS/MKV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1532734) Visitor Counter : 169