      President's Secretariat

      President of India graces 9th convocation of Dr. Y S Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry
      Posted On: 21 MAY 2018 2:47PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, graced and addressed the 9 th convocation of the Dr Y. S. Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry today (May 21, 2018) in Solan, Himachal Pradesh.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President noted that the Dr Y. S. Parmar University has the distinction of being the first Horticultural University in Asia. He said that research in horticulture and forestry has a special significance for farmers in mountainous regions such as in Himachal Pradesh. Over the past three decades, the Dr Y. S. Parmar University has contributed significantly to the advance of horticulture and forestry in the state.


    The President congratulated students of the University for choosing to pursue their education in the agricultural sector. This sector, he is said, is associated with the prosperity of farmers, the rural community and the entire country. He said he considered each student and teacher of this University to be a technically-equipped friend and partner of the farmers of Himachal Pradesh as well as other parts of our country.


    Addressing the graduating students, the President said that the goal of their education should not be limited to simply getting a job. They can start their own enterprises by using their skills and learning. There is immense potential in the field of fruit and vegetable processing. With their knowledge and enterprise, graduates of the University could help consumers in the country and abroad get better food products and help farmers get better value for their produce. He urged the students to take advantage of various schemes and initiatives of the Union and state governments to set up their businesses in the agriculture sector.


    *****


    AKT/VJ/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532920) Visitor Counter : 524
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Tamil