      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      CIPAM-DIPP organizes a conference on National IPR Policy
      Posted On: 16 MAY 2018 11:36AM by PIB Delhi


    The Cell for IPR Promotion and Management (CIPAM), a professional body under the aegis of the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP), Ministry of Commerce & Industry, is organizing a conference on successful completion of two years of the National Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Policy adopted by the Government of India in May 2016 in New Delhi today.


    Shri Suresh Prabhu, Minister of Commerce and Industry and Civil Aviation, will launch the IP Mascot at the event. One of the key objectives of the policy aimed at “involving eminent personalities as ambassadors to spread awareness and importance of IP in India”. In this context, an anti-piracy video featuring Mr. Amitabh Bachchan will also be launched at the event.


    The National IPR Policy is a vision document that aims to create and exploit synergies between all forms of intellectual property (IP), concerned statutes and agencies. It sets in place an institutional mechanism for implementation, monitoring and review. It aims to incorporate and adapt global best practices to the Indian scenario.


    In this regard, the Cell for IPR Promotion and Management (CIPAM) was created in the year 2016 as a professional body under the aegis of DIPP to take forward the implementation of the National IPR Policy . Since then, CIPAM is working towards creating public awareness about IPRs in the country, promoting the filing of IPRs through facilitation, providing inventors with a platform to commercialize their IP assets and coordinating the implementation of the National IPR Policy in collaboration with Government Ministries/Departments and other stakeholders.


    This conference will mark two years of the National IPR Policy and will have focused sessions on women in innovation and creativity, awareness, commercialization and enforcement of IPRs. It will highlight the progress with regards to the objectives of the policy and the way forward.


    ***


    MM/ RC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532225) Visitor Counter : 442
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil