      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Vice President of India Addresses Annual Convocation of Lady Hardinge Medical College
      Posted On: 18 MAY 2018 4:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The Hon’ble Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu today addressed the Annual Convocation of Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC) in presence of Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey and Smt Anupriya Patel, Ministers of State for Health and Family Welfare.


    Addressing the participants, the Vice President of India stated training of young professionals in the sciences and art of medicine is one of the most sacred duties one can ever perform. “You are not only imparting knowledge and helping students imbibe skills but you are also facilitating the internalization of a set of values. Patience, understanding, empathy, soothing expression and skillful assessment are crucial for a successful career in medicine,” the Vice President said.


    In his address, the Vice President further stated that the private sector must not only supplement the efforts of the government in bridging the urban-rural divide in the health sector, but must adopt a more humane and philanthropic approach and ensure that healthcare is affordable and accessible. Shri Naidu also lauded the government for Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM) that will provide universal health care to 50 crore poor and vulnerable people.


    He urged the students to maintain the highest standards of ethics and integrity at every stage. “I am sure that all the students of the Lady Hardinge Medical College will carry on the legacy of this prestigious institute and contribute towards building a healthy India,” the Vice President added.


    Congratulating the students, Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare said that the students graduating today must not stop learning and should always enhance their skills and knowledge. They must not also forget their responsibility towards the society and the patients they are treating. “The main aim of your training is to serve people and poverty should never come in between. “The advice you give to your patients should not result in destitution. No person should be left without treatment due to lack of money,” Shri Choubey said.


    Highlighting the initiatives of the Ministry, Shri Choubey stated that the Government has increased the age of retirement of doctors to 65 years and is setting up of more medical and nursing schools. He further said that the government is multi-skilling doctors to overcome the shortage of specialists. Shri Choubey said that the introduction of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) would benefit students’ fraternity across the country as they will not have to appear in multiple entrance exams and such an exam will lead to greater transparency, reduce the burden on prospective students, mitigate litigation in various courts of law with respect to the examination process and ensure better standards of Medical Education.


    Shri Choubey further said that suitable amendments have also been carried out in the Graduate Medical Education Regulations and Post Graduate Medical Education Regulations for making common counseling for admission in Medical Colleges mandatory and existing medical colleges are being upgraded by setting up of Super Specialty Blocks in 70 such medical colleges in the entire country.


    Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey awarded degrees to 81 post graduates and 175 graduate students. He also gave away 38 medals and prizes to the meritorious students.


    Dr. Promila Gupta, DGHS and Shri Sanjeeva Kumar, Additional Secretary (Health) and Dr Rajiv Garg, Director, LHMC, along with the senior officers and faculty of the Institute were also present at the function.


    ***


    MV/Sk


    

    
    (Release ID: 1532752) Visitor Counter : 252