      Ministry of Steel

      NMDC bags S&P PLATTS Global Metals Award 2018 under CSR category
      Posted On: 18 MAY 2018 5:52PM by PIB Delhi


    NMDC Limited has bagged the prestigious S&P Global PLATTS Global Metals Award 2018 in corporate social responsibility (CSR) category held on 17.05.2018 at London. The shortlisted 12 nominations were of renowned companies across the world. This is the first time since inception of this award that an Indian Company bagged an award in this category.


    S&P Global Platts is the leading independent provider of information, benchmark prices and analytics for the energy and commodities markets. It has been in existence for over 100 years.


    The S&P Global Platts Global Metals Award recognizes top performers – industry leaders and innovators. The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Award recognizes the organization that best demonstrates leadership, commitment to action and real-world social impact on social responsibility of corporate business entity. N. Baijendra Kumar, Chairman-cum-Managing Director and Sandeep Tula, Director (Personnel), NMDC Limited received the award.


    NMDC is the largest iron ore mining company in India. With iron ore production of around 35 million tonnes per annum, it has a domestic market share of about 25%

    (non-captive category). It also extracts diamonds through its mine in Panna, which is the only mechanized diamond mine in Asia.


    NMDC’s CSR engagement has grown over the years which gets reflected in the CSR expenditure which has increased from Rs.86 crore (13.25 million USD) in 2011-12 to an average of Rs.190 crore (30 million USD) during the last three years. The company has been supporting initiatives on education, health, skill development, infrastructure creation and drinking water among others with a view to enhance the quality of life and empower the local population.


    NMDC has in place a unique model to design and implement CSR programmes which involve a consultative process with various stakeholders, viz., District and State Administration, NGOs, people’s representatives and beneficiaries.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532782) Visitor Counter : 211