      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Dr Jitendra Singh announces Rs 28 crore for 'Brahmaputra Study Centre' at Gauhati University
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2018 5:09PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh ​has said the​ Government has approved setting up of an exclusive "Brahmaputra Study Centre" at Gauhati University, Guwahati, for which a fund of about Rs. 28 crore will be provided by the Ministry of DoNER.


    The Vice-Chancellor of Gauhati University, Dr Mridul Hazarika, who called on Dr Jitendra Singh here today, said that the University has decided to provide land within the campus for a separate block for the Brahmaputra Study Centre / Department.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said the Gauhati University is one of the oldest universities in the country and it needs to cultivate a unique identity for itself which could attract scholars from far and wide by setting up the "Brahmaputra Study Centre". He said, Brahmaputra is one of the largest rivers of the world and the Study Centre being set up within the Gauhati University will offer an opportunity for research in different aspects of river Brahmaputra in physics, hydrology, waterways, environment, disaster/flood management, hydro-power production etc.


    Describing it as a "one stop destination" for all issues and problems that may emerge from time to time with respect to the Brahmaputra River System, Dr Jitendra Singh informed that the first major study at the Centre has already been initiated. He said, it is devoted to the research on the causes and prevention of frequent floods in the river and includes some of the internationally renowned scholars from across the world.


    Dr Jitendra Singh pointed out that the Ministry of DoNER in the last four years has gone beyond the mandate of focusing only on development works and has also tried to contribute for enrichment of education sector in Northeast. In this regard, he referred to the initiative of the Ministry in setting up the "Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Study Centre" in IIM, Shillong where the former President breathed his last. He also referred to the tripartite MoU signed between Barooah Cancer Institute Guwahati, Assam Government and the North-Eastern Council, as a result of which, super-specialty cancer courses in DM (Onco-Medicine) and MCh (Onco-Surgery) have been started for the first time in the region.


    ***


    BB/PK/NK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1533770) Visitor Counter : 255