      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Government is Committed for the welfare of students from SCs, OBCs, EBCs, DNTs and Divyangjans – Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot
      
      Consultative committee meeting of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment held
      
      Posted On: 23 MAY 2018 4:56PM by PIB Delhi


    The Meeting of Consultative Committee of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment held here today under the chairmanship of Shri ThaawarchandGehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment. Ministers of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Krishan Pal Gurjarand Shri Vijay Sampla were also present. The subject of the meeting was “Scholarship schemes for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Other Backward Classes (OBCs)/Economically Backward Classes (EBCs)/De-Notified & Nomadic Tribes (DNTs)and Divyangjans (PwDs)”.


    Addressing on the occasion, Shri ThaawarchandGehlot informed the Members of the various ongoing scholarships schemes of the Government of India for the welfare of the students from Scheduled Castes (SCs), Other Backward Classes (OBCs)/Economically Backward Classes (EBCs)/De-Notified & Nomadic Tribes (DNTs) and Divyangjans(PwDs). He said that the objectives of these scholarships are to facilitate educational empowerment of students from these classes and from economically weaker sections and to ensure their economic and social empowerment resulting from education. There is substantial increase in the financial allocations and change in the eligibility criteria for these scholarships.


    The Power Point Presentations on all these scholarships highlighting all aspects were also presented by the concerned Joint Secretaries on the occasion.


    The scholarship schemes for the students from Scholarship schemes for Scheduled Castes (SCs), Other Backward Classes (OBCs)/Economically Backward Classes (EBCs)/De-Notified & Nomadic Tribes (DNTs) and Divyangjans (PwDs) are as follows:


    (i) Scholarship schemes of Scheduled Castes (SCs):

     1. Post Matric Scholarships to the students belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC).
     2. Pre-matric Scholarship for SC students studying in Class IX and X.
     3. Pre-matric Scholarship to the children of those engaged in occupations involving cleaning and prone to health hazards.
     4. National Fellowship Scheme to SC students for pursuing M.Phil and Ph.D.
     5. National Overseas Scholarship Scheme for SC etc candidates.
     6. Top Class Scholarship Scheme for SC Students.
     7. Free Coaching Scheme for SC and OBC students.

    (ii) Scholarship schemes for other Backward Class (OBC)/Economically Backward Classes (EBCs)/ De-notified and Nomadic Tribes (DNTs):

     1. Pre-Matric Scholarships to OBCs.
     2. Post-Matric Scholarship for OBC Students
     3. Dr.Ambedkar Scheme of Post-Matric Scholarship for students belonging to Economically Backward Classes (EBCs).
     4. Dr.Ambedkar Scheme of Pre-Matric and Post Metric Scholarship for DNTs.

    (iii) Scholarship Schemes for Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjans):

     1. Pre-Matric
     2. Post-Metric
     3. Top Class Education
     4. National Fellowship
     5. National Overseas Scholarship
     6. Free Coaching

    The Members of Parliament who participated inthe Consultative Committee Meeting include:Shri Hariom Singh Rathore, Dr. (Smt.) MamtazSanghamita, Smt. Vasanthi M. and Shri Vinod Chavda (All Lok Sabha);and Shri Ahamed Hassan, Shri K. Somaprasad (All Rajya Sabha).


    Secretary, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment Smt. Neelam Sawhney, Secretary, DEPwD Smt. Shakuntala D. Gamlina nd senior officers of the Ministry also attended the meeting.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/MoSJ&E/23.05.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533164) Visitor Counter : 200
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

6.