      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      ASEAN India Film Festival Will be an Extravaganza Showcasing 32 Films from 11 Countries: Rathore
      
      Jassari Movie Sinjar was The Opening Film for The Festival

      Posted On: 25 MAY 2018 8:56PM by PIB Delhi

    Minister of State (I/C) for Information & Broadcasting and Sports & Youth Affairs, Col Rajyavardhan Rathore inaugurated the ASEAN India Film Festival here today. Secretary East, Ministry of External Affairs Smt Preeti Saran, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Representative from ASEAN Secretariat, Additional Director General, Directorate of Film Festival Shri Chaitanya Prasad and other dignitaries were present on the occasion. The opening ceremony was followed by the screening of first Jasari language movie “Sinjar”.


    Speaking on the occasion Col Rajyavardhan Rathore said that this film festival will be an extravaganza showcasing 32 films from 11 countries in ASEAN and India. It will be a potpourri of films. He also said that ASEAN has historically many commonalities with India. He said that the film festivals organized by the Ministry like BRICS Film Festival has become a point of conversation among the diplomats. Film Festivals in foreign countries regularly stream Indian films. These are ways of improving friendship. He emphasized that the Film Facilitation Cell, a single window clearance mechanism created for shooting films in India is helping the foreign film makers in a big way. He said that the Film is an art of story telling and is different from theaters and other forms of story telling. Story from anywhere doesn't matter as emotions and feelings are common across the world.


    Background :


    ASEAN India Film Festival will build bridges and bring harmony amongst the ASEAN countries, the festival would provide more people-to-people contact between member countries especially youth. As a vehicle of Cultural Exchange, the Directorate of Film Festival aims to provide access to new trends in filmmaking by providing the platform for an exchange of ideas, culture and experiences in the field of cinema. The ASEAN film festival will have countries which have immense and colourful cultural diversity but share common historical thread. This will be showcased through screenings of films, alongside exchange of ideas, discussions between the film personalities and interactive sessions with the audience.


    Around 32 films from 11 countries are to be screened during the Festival. Beyond films, the Festival will also panel discussions on various aspect of cinema.


    For Screening Schedule Click here .


    Background:


    The Directorate of Film Festivals is organising ASEAN India Film Festival from 25 th to 30 th May, 2018 in Delhi in collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs (ASEAN Multilateral Division) as part of the series of events to commemorate the 25 years of ASEAN and India relations.


    The Film Festival is non-competitive. The tagline of the Festival is ‘Friendship through Films’.


    Aim of the Festival


    As a vehicle of Cultural Exchange, the Directorate of Film Festival aims to provide access to new trends in filmmaking by providing the platform for an exchange of ideas, culture and experiences in the field of cinema. The ASEAN film festival will have countries which have immense and colourful cultural diversity but share common historical thread. This will be showcased through screenings of films, alongside exchange of ideas, discussions between the film personalities and interactive sessions with the audience.


    Interactive Sessions


    An hour-long discussions and interactive sessions on different aspects of filmmaking for the students of cinema and cine enthusiasts will be held from 11:00 am from 26th - 28 th May, 2018.


    The invited guests from the member countries and India will be on the panel for discussions. Following are the tentative topics for discussions:-


    I. India-ASEAN Film Market – Co-Production Opportunities.


    II. Cinema as a Vehicle for Cultural Friendship.


    III. Portrayal of Woman in ASEAN Cinema.


    Students of Film, Media and Drama Institutes will be invited for the interactive sessions.


    ***


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533565) Visitor Counter : 182