      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Government during the last 48 months has achieved many wonderful successes: Shri Rajnath Singh
      
      Multi-pronged strategy has resulted in secure environment across the country: Union Home Minister

      Posted On: 29 MAY 2018 7:25PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh has said the Union Government during the last 48 months has achieved many wonderful successes. It has worked in a transparent manner with complete determination and pure intentions.


    Addressing a press conference in Lucknow today, Shri Rajnath Singh said the Indian economy is now among the top seven largest economies of the world. And according to some studies, it will break into the top five within the next few years. Stating that the fiscal deficit is under control, Shri Rajnath Singh however admitted there is some pressure due to rising US dollar and crude oil prices. The government is seriously thinking on issues related to rising oil prices, he added. He said there is no crisis because our forex reserves at 400 billion USD are very comfortable. Due to the attractive economic policies, 156 billion USD foreign investment flowed into the country.


    Shri Rajnath Singh said the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi created a revolution with JAM- Jan Dhan accounts, Aadhar and Mobile connectivity- which facilitated direct transfer of subsidies to beneficiaries. Rs 69,815 crores was distributed among 20 crore beneficiaries, he said. There are no leakages now and complete benefits are reaching people directly, he added.


    The Union Home Minister said there is a big change and faster growth in the infrastructure development. Construction of Express highways increased from 12 km per day earlier to 27 km per day now. There is going to be heavy investment- 4 to 5 trillion USD in Indian infrastructure sector by 2040. Rural roads were also built at a rapid pace to increase coverage from 56 percent of villages four years ago to 82 percent now.


    Shri Rajnath Singh said, by 2022 farmers incomes will double and towards this end the Union Government has taken many initiatives. Our government has introduced ‘Ayushman Bharat’ scheme to provide health cover to ten crore poor families of our country, he said. It is the largest state-run medical scheme in the world. Poor people will get benefits upto Rs 5 lakhs under this Health Insurance scheme, he added.


    The Union Home Minister said we have brought in tough laws to deal with economic offenders- Benami Transaction Act was notified. Now economic wealth of offenders will be confiscated both in India as well as abroad.


    As far as Ministry of Home Affairs is concerned, a multi-pronged strategy has been adopted resulting in marked improvement in the Internal Security across the country. He said the situation in the North East has improved. From 1997 to 2017, there has been a decline of 85% in incidents and 96% decline in deaths. AFSPA has been withdrawn from Meghalaya and also from some areas of Arunachal Pradesh. Shri Rajnath Singh said there is marked improvement in LWE scenario as well. While 76 districts were affected by LWE violence in 2013, that number has come down to 58 now. In Jammu and Kashmir, our Government has successfully eliminated 619 terrorists in four years, compared to 413 terrorists killed during four years of UPA Government for the period 2010-13.


    He said there is great progress in the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) project and it has also been lauded abroad. In 2014 73% Police Stations were linked on the network, now this covers almost 100% Police Stations. Border security further improved with the launch of the Comprehensive Integrated Border Management System (CIBMS). He said the E-Visa facility has been extended to cover 165 countries, resulting in a surge in foreign tourist arrivals.


    On Women’s Safety, the Union Home Minister said amendment has been made to provide death penalty for rape of minors. On Centre-State relations, Shri Rajnath Singh said we completed the onerous task of deliberations on all the 273 recommendations of the Punchhi Commission report. The long pending amendment to the Enemy Properties Act was also carried out, which enabled the Government gain control over properties worth more than Rs.1,00,000 crore.


    Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and MP from Chandoli, Dr Mahendranath Pandey also attended the press conference.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1533815) Visitor Counter : 416
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil