      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      174th meeting of ESIC held yesterday in New Delhi
      
      Dispensary cum Branch Offices to be Openned in all the districts of the country
      
      
      Nursing Internship Program in ESIC Hospitals to begin soon

      Posted On: 30 MAY 2018 5:26PM by PIB Delhi

    Some very important decisions were taken towards improvements in service delivery mechanism of ESIC in 174 th meeting of ESI Corporation in New Delhi yesterday under the Chairmanship of Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Union Minister of State for Labour & Employment (I/C).


    To strengthen medical services in all the districts of the country, the decision for opening of one ESIC Dispensary cum Branch Office (DCBO) in every district of the country was taken in the meeting. The DCBO will provide primary medical care, referrals for secondary medical care, scrutiny of bills of secondary care referrals, etc. besides distribution of drugs to Modified Employer Utilization Dispensary, IMPs in the district, payment of cash benefits, survey work for coverage in the district. The ESIC will bear the establishment and operational cost of DCBO, without sharing, in the similar manner of expenditure of ESIC Hospitals.


    During the meeting, the decision for starting a Nursing Internship program in ESIC Hospitals was also taken. The program would be open to duly registered fresh graduate Nurses who are looking to update their skill in real work setting under supervision of regular staff. ESIC would offer practical work experience to graduate Nursing pass outs, focusing on application of Nursing theory and knowledge to actual Nursing tasks in medical settings. A stipend (consolidated) of Rs.22,000/- could be provided for duration of the internship. The selection would be based on merit and no. of positions for internship could be around 20% of the sanctioned strength of Staff Nurses for the ESIC hospital.


    ESI Corporation has given in principal approval to Modified Insurance Medical Practitioner (IMP) Scheme, 2018 to make IMP Scheme more attractive on pilot basis. This Scheme may further be expanded in the new areas as well as existing areas as per need. In an area, where ESI does not have its medical establishment, or in newly implemented area, Primary Medical Care is provided cash less through tie up arrangement, with Insurance Medical Practitioner (IMP). ESIC shall utilize the services of private practitioners (as IMPs) for delivery of primary care services (except for lab tests & medicines) to IPS.


    The Decision of Construction of 100 bedded ESI Hospital in Bahadurgarh, Haryana; 50 bedded additional facilities for Super Speciality treatment at ESIC Hospital, Varanasi, UP; and starting of 100 beds medical facilities in ESIC Medical Hospital, Bihta, Patna, Bihar were also taken in the meeting.


    Besides this, the proposal for upgradation of existing ESIC Hospital at Bibvewadi, Pune from 50 to 200 beds (upgradable to 500 beds) and enhancement of bed strength of ESIC Hospital, Namkum, Ranchi from 75 to 200 beds and construction thereby of 200 bedded ESIC Hospital at Ranchi, Jharkhand were approved.


    The meeting was also attended by Sh. Heera Lal Samariya, Secretary, Labour & Employment, ESI Corporation Members representing Members of Parliament, Employees’ & Employers’ Federation/Association, Representatives of State Governments and officers of MoL&E & ESIC.


    *****


    JN/SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1533866) Visitor Counter : 809