      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Activities undertaken by the Expert Central Technical team in Kerala for management of Nipah Virus Disease
      Posted On: 23 MAY 2018 6:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Following directions of the Union Health Minister, Shri J P Nadda, a multi-disciplinary Central team from National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is presently in Kerala constantly reviewing the situation of the Nipah Virus Disease.


    Yesterday, the Expert Central Technical team held meetings with the State Health Minister and Doctors of Government as well as Private Hospitals. Clinical picture, management and treatment given to the patients were discussed in detail along with contact tracing strategy. A part of the team led by Dr.S.K.singh, Director, NCDC visited Malappuram district where they addressed the doctors from Government and Private Hospitals on the Nipah virus disease. The team along with the State Health Minister also interacted with the general public to create awareness and allay any fears in their mind about the disease. The deceased patients from Malappuram had visited the Government Medical College, Kozhikode at the time of admission of the Index cases and had interaction with the index case. The team also devised draft guidelines, case definitions, advisory for healthcare workers, information to the general public, advisories for sample collection and transportation and a brief on Nipah virus disease. A draft reporting format was prepared and shared with experts for cases, suspects and contacts.


    Another part of the Central Expert Team led by Dr.P.Ravindran, Director(Emergency Medical Relief) visited the Government Medical College, Kozhikode and reviewed the treatment procedure, infection control practises, use and availability of personal protective equipment (PPE) and availability of drugs, particularly in the designated wards. An action plan was also developed for the healthcare staff and simulation exercise was planned.


    Today, the team held meetings with the District Collector, Kozhikode and discussed streamlining the reporting mechanism and strengthening inter-sectoral coordination. It was decided to provide separate ambulances for transportation of the suspects to designated isolation facilities. The interim guidelines, case definitions, advisories to healthcare workers and information to the general public were shared. Advisories were issued for sample collection and transportation also. The team also visited the Govt. Medical College, Kozhikode and reviewed the treatment procedure, infection control practises and availability of personal protective equipment (PPE) and drugs in the designated wards. Simulation exercise for healthcare staff was undertaken as per the Action Plan developed.


    The details of cases and deaths as on date are as under:


    Total number of confirmed cases: 13


    Total number of suspected cases: 16 (15 are admitted in Govt. Medical College, Kozhikode and 1 is admitted in Manjeri Medical College in Malappuram District. Lab results of these admissions are awaited)


    Total number of deaths: 11 (8 from Kozhikode District and 3 from Malappuram District)


    *****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533243) Visitor Counter : 258