      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh directs constant vigil and security on the borders
      Posted On: 24 MAY 2018 7:07PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh has directed all concerned officials to maintain constant vigil and security on the borders. At a review meeting here today, he took stock of the progress of construction of border fencing, roads and outposts along India's borders with neighbouring countries. Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba, Special Secretary (Border Management) Shri BR Sharma, Joint Secretaries of Border Management, other senior officers of MHA and senior officers from Central Armed Police Forces were present.


    With regard to the Indo-Pakistan border, Home Minister expressed satisfaction that 97% of the sanctioned border fencing work has been completed. Shri Rajnath Singh also reviewed implementation of pilot projects on Comprehensive Integrated Border Management Systems (CIBMS) on non­physical barriers. He also stressed to utilize the space technology for strengthening the border guarding and policing.


    He stressed that coastal security is of utmost importance and appreciated action taken by State Governments and UTs for operationalization of 194 Coastal Police Stations duly equipped with boats and other equipments. He underlined the need for better cooperation among various agencies engaged in maintaining coastal security.


    He directed that the next phase of the coastal security scheme should be expedited in consultation with stakeholders like Navy, Coast Guard, State Governments, etc. He complimented proactive role being played by Central Armed Forces and Navy and Coast Guard and directed that vigil may be maintained on all borders including coastal areas while protecting all legitimate and humane considerations of local population.


    Identifying that land acquisition remained an issue, he called for expediting the same especially along the country's Eastern borders.


    Expressing satisfaction over the working of six newly established Integrated Check Posts, Shri Rajnath Singh called for construction of 13 more ICPs along Indo-Nepal, Indo-Bangladesh and lndo-Bhutan borders. These Integrated Check Posts will facilitate cross border trade and movement of people.


    HM also reviewed working of Border Area Development Plan and directed that all border States should send their annual action plans to MHA for release of funds quickly and all schemes and projects under BADP should be implemented at fast pace.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1533424) Visitor Counter : 266
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi