      AYUSH

      Mobilization for Various Activities for observation of IDY-2018 Planned
      
      Curtain raiser to the main event of 4th International Day of Yoga at Dehradun

      Posted On: 30 MAY 2018 7:49PM by PIB Delhi

    The capital of Uttrakhand, Dehradun will host the main mega event of this year’s International Day of Yoga on 21st June 2018 and the event will be led by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi . This was formally announced by Shri Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH today. Shri Kotecha informed that three venues at Dehradun have been short-listed for the 4 th IDY national event on 21 st June 2018, namely the GTC Grounds, Maharana Pratap College of Physical Education and FRI Grounds. The final selection is being done in consultation with the State Government. He further said that on 7 th June 2018, there will be a Curtain raiser to the main event at Dehradun . The Chief Minister of Uttarakhand Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat, Minister of State (IC) for AYUSH Shri Shripad Naik and eminent Yoga Gurus will attend this event.


    The Secretary further briefed the media persons that the Ministry already initiated a country-wide mobilization for taking up appropriate and specific activities for observation of IDY-2018 through a series of communications. Through these communications, the different Central Ministries and Departments, State Governments, Gram Pradhans (of about 2.5 lakh villages), Yoga institutions, Educational Institutions, Chambers of Commerce, Municipal Bodies etc. were addressed and sensitized on IDY and were provided with suggested lists of activities, customized to the nature of the agency. Responses have been coming in, indicating that various preparatory activities are already taking place he added.


    The Secretary AYUSH said that the count-down to the main event also incorporates a sustained campaign through social media platforms. Online competitions on jingle-composing, poster-making and yoga-quiz have already added to the buzz. He said that the competitions on Facebook like the “IDY Challenge” attracted excellent response, and more such activities are planned on newly re-vamped and interactive IDY Portal.


    Shri Rajesh Kotecha informed that one of the highlights of IDY observation in India is the announcement of the Prime Minister’s Yoga Awards. The awards are being given away each year for exemplary contribution in the field of Yoga towards the development and promotion of Yoga. He said that this year Ministry received more than 200 nominations/ applications for the same, and these are being processed in accordance with the laid down procedure.


    On this occasion Shri P. N Ranjeet Joint Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH informed that activities like Yoga Training in all districts, setting up of Yoga Parks and State Level Yoga Fests are also planned. He said that the Ministry is developing a Yoga Protocol for women in the age group of 40 plus in consultation with Indian Menopause Society (IMS). This will be released on the occasion of IDT. Further he added that the Ministry and IMS will hold various training programmes on 21 st June, 2018 and in the months after that to popularize the Protocol.


    ****


    RJ/SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1533924) Visitor Counter : 327