      Vice President's Secretariat

      Dr. Ambedkar’s thoughts and teachings are relevant forever: Vice President
      
      Youth must visit Panch Theerthas to understand the life and philosophy of Dr. Ambedkar
      
      Compliments Government for the initiatives
      
      Visits Dr. Ambedkar National Memorial and Dr. Ambedkar International Centre and pays glowing tributes to the architect of the Indian Constitution
      Posted On: 30 MAY 2018 1:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Dr. Ambedkar’s thoughts and teachings are relevant forever. He was visiting Dr. Ambedkar National Memorial and Dr. Ambedkar International Centre, here today, which were constructed as part of the Panch Theerth Memorials as a tribute to the revered social reformer and the architect of the Indian Constitution. The Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Thaawar Chand Gehlot, the Minister of State for Social Justice & Empowerment, Shri Vijay Sampla and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President spent considerable time at the National Memorial, which houses the museum containing 27 exhibits on the life and work of Dr. Ambedkar. The museum has LED walls for screening short films on Dr. Ambedkar. It also has a robotic device which emulates lifelike characteristics of Dr. Ambedkar and repeats the speech he had made in the Constituent Assembly on 25 th July, 1949.


    Later, the Vice President visited Dr. Ambedkar International Centre and went around the auditoria and a big library.


    Interacting with the staff at both the places, he paid glowing tributes to Dr. Ambedkar. He lauded the Government for constructing the memorials in the form of Panch Theerthas at his birthplace at Mhow, Madhya Pradesh, place in London where he had stayed while studying in the UK, Deeksha Bhoomi in Nagpur, Mahaparivathan Sthal in Delhi and Chaitya Bhoomi in Mumbai.


    Describing the memorials as a befitting homage to a great son of India, he said that he was fortunate to have visited all the five places.


    Observing that the depiction of life Dr. Ambdekar at the museum was wonderful, he said “it is a beautiful museum dutifully done to keep the memory of the great son of this great country”. He said the project was initiated when he was the urban Development Minister and it was a dream come true for him to see the “beautiful museum”. The Museum must be visited by every Indian youth, he added. He said the museum was the best place to understand the life, teachings and preaching of Dr. Babasaheb.


    After visiting the auditoria and the library at Dr. Ambedkar International Centre, the Vice President said that he was highly impressed with the architecture of the building, located at Janpath. He said the entire literature relating to Dr. Babasaheb should be made available at the library. He suggested to the authorities to regularly hold national and international seminars on Dr. Ambedkar.


    He said Dr. Babasaheb was not only an outstanding intellectual, but was also a great social reformer, philosopher and humanist, who strove all through his life to dismantle caste barriers. His thoughts are eternal and relevant for all times.


    He said the nation would be always grateful for his stellar contribution in drafting the constitution. He was one of the builders of modern India and his vision contributed towards the formulation of water and industrial policies in the country. He was the pioneer in giving proper direction and guidance to the nation after independence.


    He complimented the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi and Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Thawar Chand Gehlot and others for building the memorials which will be important places for younger generation to carry out research and understand the contributions made by Dr. Ambedkar. The Vice President said “the younger generation should know about his life and philosophy as also the struggles he had undergone”.


    The Vice President complimented the architects and appreciated the monolith sculpture of Lord Budhha Statue inside Dr. Ambedkar National Memorial.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1533837) Visitor Counter : 1048
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil