      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Ministry of Home Affairs authorizes Engineering Wings of CAPFs to execute construction works
      Posted On: 25 MAY 2018 6:53PM by PIB Delhi


    MHA has issued orders, authorizing the Engineering Wings of CAPFs to function as Public works organizations. This will enable them execute construction works upto Rs. 15 crore for execution of Major Works and Rs.1 crore for Minor Repair Works. This power will be exercised by the Technical Officers with requisite technical qualifications/experience, as provided in the Recruitment Rules and subject to observance of CPWD Manual.


    This would result in speedy execution of important Projects and will go a long way in solving the problem of delay in execution of the construction works of the CAPFs. The construction works of the CAPFs are widespread, mostly in remote areas. Now, with the Engineering Wings of CAPFs being authorized to execute works, the CAPFs will be able to construct their essential infrastructure like Barracks, Border Out Posts (BOPs) and other security infrastructure on their own.


    CAPFs have significant presence in high altitude and inhospitable terrain, where they were experiencing difficulties in developing and maintaining authorized infrastructure due to meager presence of Public works organizations in such areas. The Ministry of Home Affairs, therefore, undertook an exercise to empower the CAPFs to execute construction works on their own, with the help of their Engineering Wings, which have many qualified technical officers, who are capable of rendering technical service. The Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) had been sanctioned Engineering Wings but as per the extant General Finance Rules (GFR), they were unable to execute works on their own, making them dependant on CPWD/other Public Works Organizations (PWOs). This decision would go a long way in improving satisfaction of essential infrastructure for improving living conditions and operational capability of the Central Armed Police Forces.


    ***


    BB/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533538) Visitor Counter : 272
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi