      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      ASEAN India Film Festival to explore areas of cooperation in the field of Cinema & Culture
      
      India to host the ASEAN India Film Festival
      
      Jassari Movie Sinjar to be the opening film for the festival

      Posted On: 23 MAY 2018 3:35PM by PIB Delhi

    Minister of State (I/C) for Information & Broadcasting and Sports & Youth Affairs, Col Rajyavardhan Rathore will inaugurate the Film Festival in Siri Fort Auditorium on 25th May 2018. The Film Festival will be a platform for people of the film industry of member countries to explore areas of cooperation in the domain of “cinema and cultural cooperation. The festival would celebrate the excellence of cinema by exhibiting films from various ASEAN countries.


    ASEAN India Film Festival will build bridges and bring harmony amongst the ASEAN countries, the festival would provide more people-to-people contact between member countries especially youth. As a vehicle of Cultural Exchange, the Directorate of Film Festival aims to provide access to new trends in filmmaking by providing the platform for an exchange of ideas, culture and experiences in the field of cinema. The ASEAN film festival will have countries which have immense and colourful cultural diversity but share common historical thread. This will be showcased through screenings of films, alongside exchange of ideas, discussions between the film personalities and interactive sessions with the audience.


    Around 32 films from 11 countries are to be screened during the Festival. Beyond films, the Festival will also panel discussions on various aspect of cinema.


    For Screening Schedule Click here .


    Background:


    The Directorate of Film Festivals is organising ASEAN India Film Festival from 25 th to 30 th May, 2018 in Delhi in collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs (ASEAN Multilateral Division) as part of the series of events to commemorate the 25 years of ASEAN and India relations.


    The Film Festival will be non-competitive. The tagline of the Festival is proposed to be ‘Friendship through Films’.


    About ASEAN


    The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is a regional intergovernmental organization comprising ten Southeast Asian countries (Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam) which promotes Pan-Asianism and intergovernmental cooperation and facilitates economic, political, security, military, educational and socio-cultural integration amongst its members and other Asian countries, and globally. Its principal aims include accelerating economic growth, social progress, and sociocultural evolution among its members, alongside the protection of regional stability and the provision of a mechanism for member countries to resolve differences peacefully. ASEAN is an official United Nations observer, as well as an active global partner. It also maintains a global network of alliances, and is involved in numerous international affairs. Communication by member states takes place in English.


    Aim of the Festival


    As a vehicle of Cultural Exchange, the Directorate of Film Festival aims to provide access to new trends in filmmaking by providing the platform for an exchange of ideas, culture and experiences in the field of cinema. The ASEAN film festival will have countries which have immense and colourful cultural diversity but share common historical thread. This will be showcased through screenings of films, alongside exchange of ideas, discussions between the film personalities and interactive sessions with the audience.


    Interactive Sessions


    An hour-long discussions and interactive sessions on different aspects of filmmaking for the students of cinema and cine enthusiasts will be held from 11:00 am from 26th - 28 th May, 2018.


    The invited guests from the member countries and India will be on the panel for discussions. Following are the tentative topics for discussions:-


    I. India-ASEAN Film Market – Co-Production Opportunities.


    II. Cinema as a Vehicle for Cultural Friendship.


    III. Portrayal of Woman in ASEAN Cinema.


    Students of Film, Media and Drama Institutes will be invited for the interactive sessions.


    ***


    AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1533112) Visitor Counter : 339
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Tamil , Malayalam