      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Secularism, Social-Communal Harmony and Tolerance is in the DNA of India: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi
      Posted On: 24 MAY 2018 1:46PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said that "secularism, social-communal harmony and tolerance" is in the DNA of India and compared to the entire world, constitutional, social, cultural and religious rights of minorities are more safe and secure in India.


    During a meeting with a delegation of “Diocese of Delhi- Church of North India” Shri Naqvi said that the Central Government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is working with commitment to “Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas” and “Development with Dignity” with complete honesty and without any discrimination.


    He said that the Government has broken every barrier including caste, religion, region and it is moving forward towards “inclusive growth” to ensure that not a single Indian is deprived of the light of development. He added that the government is committed to protect all constitutional institutions, democratic values and religious rights of all sections. Shri Naqvi called for caution against those forces who want to disturb the atmosphere of trust and development due to their “prejudiced mindset and vested interests”. He said, that social-communal harmony is our culture and tolerance is our commitment and we all have to work together to protect and strengthen this culture and commitment.


    Shri Naqvi said that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is working for all religions and castes without any discrimination. The Government's “Jan Dhan Yojana”, "Skill India", "Start Up India", "Stand Up India", "Mudra Yojana”, "Ujjwala Yojana" have benefited a large number of poor, weaker sections, minorities and women. The Minister said that the work done for the socio-economic-educational empowerment of minorities in the last 48 months had not been done even in 48 years. Programmes such as "Garib Nawaz Kaushal Vikas Yojana", "Hunar Haat", "Nai Manzil”, “Seekho aur Kamao”, "Begum Hazrat Mahal Girls Scholarship", "Nai Udaan”, “Naya Savera” etc have proved to be the milestone for the empowerment of minorities.


    The Minister said that he regularly meets with various delegations of Minority communities to take a stock of ground reality to ensure that schemes aimed at their socio-economic-educational empowerment are implemented effectively.


    The thirteen member delegation, led by Revd. Dr. Suresh Kumar, vice-president of Diocese of Delhi (CNI), comprised of people from various fields such as- Revd. Kamal Jerald Rodgers Mall, Revd. Mohit Heinz Hitter, Mrs Anuradha Amos, Principal; Mrs Poornima Lall, Principal; Mrs K Sudha, Principal; Ms Swati Paul, Principal; Ms Olivia Biswas, Teacher; and others .


    ******


    JN/FH/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533308) Visitor Counter : 236
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil , Malayalam