      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Union Tribal Affairs Minister Shri Jual Oram launches exhibition cum sale event ‘the Pankha’ (Hand-Fans) through TRIFED and TRIBES India
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2018 7:14PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Tribal Affairs Minister, Shri Jual Oram launched an exhibition cum sale event, ‘the PANKHA’ (Hand-fans), created by TRIFED through its artisans from all over the country at its showroom Tribes India, 9 Mahadevan Road , New Delhi today. Noted artist Jatin Das also graced the occasion.


    While addressing the event at the TRIBES India Showroom, Shri Juel Oram congratulated TRIFED for collaborating with Jatin Das Centre for Arts (JDCA) for taking this initiative forward by way of providing marketing support to the tribal artisans who are associated with this craft. He said this collaboration is expected to help revive this craft and provide livelihood opportunities for tribal artisans across the country. He advised TRIFED to market this craft through various Tribes India Outlets located across country and also e-commerce portals like Amazon, Flipkart, Snapdeal, GeM, etc. where TRIFED is already marketing other tribal handloom and handicraft products.


    The Pankhas, a range of exotic hand fans draws inspiration from the eminent Artist, Shri Jatin Das and from his collection of 10000 handmade Pankhas. These are on display at Indira Gandhi Naitonal Auditorium (IGNA), New Delhi from 26.05.2018 to 24.06.2018. TRIFED and the J.D.Centre for Arts (JDCA) are collaborating to promote the Pankha all over the country. TRIFED is showcasing and marketing these through its 97 retail outlets and e-portals.


    Hand fans are an age old tradition and are an integral part of Indian traditions and customs. In the present day contemporary world, artistic creativity of individual artisans has converted a simple utilitarian item into handcrafted masterpieces which can adorn any urban households and at the same time help provide livelihood opportunities to many. These handcrafted masterpieces include Hand Fans made from textile with embroidery and embellishments representing individual States traditions, Bamboo, Palm Leaf etc.


    The Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs said that she was delighted to be a part of the celebrations which represents our heritage in its finest form. The handmade Pankhas were a must in all household some years ago. The revival of this by TRIBES India and TRIFED is a commendable activity and she hoped that it will touch the hearts of the people of the country.


    The Chairman, TRIFED, Shri R.C. Meena appreciated TRIFED for the efforts made for the artisans from Orissa, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan to invite them to showcase their talent and skills.


    The noted Painter, Shri Jatin Das graced the function and went around the exhibition and appreciated the artisans, who had come from various States.


    MD, TRIFED, Shri Pravir Krishna stated that it was a rare privilege for TRIBES India to collaborate with the icon, Shri Jatin Das and to carry forward the work that was dear to his heart since last 50 years work which would be taken to the nook and corner of the country. TRIFED also now has the privilege to have the sporting Legend, Ms. Marry Kom to be its Brand Ambassador. Ms. Marry Kom, the five timeWomen’s World Boxing champion could not be present on account of her international commitment and would be soon visiting to share the platform with the artisans of TRIBES India.


    The Managing Director thanked all the Guests for gracing the occasion and promised that TRIFED would leave no stone unturned to empower the tribal and showcase their skills to the country and the world.


    NB/RN


    ***********************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533810) Visitor Counter : 255
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil