      Ministry of Education

      CBSE to announce class XII result tomorrow
      
      Results will be available on various platforms including Net, SMS, IVRS

      Posted On: 25 MAY 2018 9:02PM by PIB Delhi

    CBSE will declare results of Senior School Certificate Examination (Class XII ) 2018 on


    26-05-2018.


     1. RESULTS ON NET


    As per previous years, this year also the CBSE is hosting its results on net with the technical support of National Informatics Centre (NIC), Department of Information Technology, Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Govt. of India. The students can access their results through following websites;


    www.results.nic.in


    www.cbseresults.nic.in


    www.cbse.nic.in


    The schools will automatically get their entire Schools results on email id’s already registered with the Board.

     1. CBSE Goes Digital and Mobile
      * Started in 2016, this year also CBSE will also provide Class XII digital mark sheets in DigiLocker at https://digilocker.gov.in .
      * The DigiLocker account credentials will be sent to students via SMS on their mobile number registered with CBSE.
      * DigiLocker can also be accessed from your mobile phone on Android and iOS platforms.
      * Students can also view their results on UMANG mobile application which is available for android, iOS and windows based smart phone.
     1. RESULTS THROUGH IVRS (INTERACTIVE VOICE RESPONSE SYSTEM) /SMS FACILITY OF NIC

    The telephone numbers of NIC through which results can be accessed through


    IVRS are as follows:-

     1. National Informatics Centre :
                                                                    
TELEPHONE NUMBER(S)  AREA COVERED                                   
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
24300699             - for local subscribers in Delhi               
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
011 – 24300699       - for subscribers in other parts of the country
                                                                    
                                                                    

     1. SMS


    The result can be received by sending SMS f or class 12 as given below :


    cbse12 <rollno> <sch no> <center no> on mobile number 7738299899


     1. Results on Microsoft search engine


    Results can also be accessed through Microsoft search engine www.bing.com and SMS Organizer App on mobile which can be installed from playstore https://aka.ms/sms

     1. Results on Google search engine

    Results can also be accessed through Google search engine www.google.co.in

     1. Schools under Delhi Region

    Schools under the Delhi Region are advised to collect the results from the office of the respective Zonal office of Deputy Director of Education after declaration of the result by confirming time with them.


    The result will not be available in the Board and the public are advised not to


    visit Board’s office for collection of results.


    The process of verification will be displayed on CBSE’s website .


    *****


    NB/AKJ/YP/CBSE


    

    
    (Release ID: 1533567) Visitor Counter : 174
    
    
    
    
    

   
   
   
   
   
   
1.