      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      MoS Dr Jitendra Singh addresses press conference in Vijayawada
      
      Minister highlights initiatives taken by the Government during last four years

      Posted On: 30 MAY 2018 7:36PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh said that the Centre is according importance to peripheral states like never before. Addressing press conference to highlight the achievements of four years of NDA Government in Vijayawada today, he emphsised on the achievements made over the 4 years of the government at the Centre. He touched upon several issues related to internal security, peaceful atmosphere in northeastern region, safety of women especially the girl child and relations with neighbouring nations.


    Speaking about various schemes of the Central Government, he said that schemes like MUDRA is a success, because of the credibility and trustworthiness of the Government. He said that schemes like MUDRA and Ujjwala were introduced to help the poor. He added that the Jan Dhan initiative directed to the poorer section of the society was perhaps the most ambitious of all schemes. PMJDY has emerged as one of the world’s largest financial inclusion programmes, and about 80 percent of adults and almost all households now have access to banking in the country, he added. Claiming GST as another big success of the Government, the Minister said it has brought 1.8 million more people into under the tax net. Speaking about demonetisation and implementation of GST, Dr. Jitendra said when people have confidence in the government, it becomes easier to implement such schemes that are not seen viable for political parties. People have faith in Shri Narendra Modi government and that’s the biggest achievement of this government, he said.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh said that the latest researches need to synergize with the requirements to evolve an effective and efficient Counter-Insurgency strategy. He said that the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘New India’ can become a success if ‘safe and secure’ India becomes the ‘mantra’. He said that Cyber Security needs to be revisited with sustained and renewed vigor so that the country is not lagging in global technological advancement sphere. He also exhorted the stakeholders to evolve a value-based system with high morals, so that the young generation is not diverted from the path of discipline, growth and development.


    The Minister also interacted with the editors of news agencies and media. During the interaction he elaborated the achievements of NDA government and various benefits extended to Andhra Pradesh by the Union Government.


    Earlier in the day, Dr. Jitendra Singh interacted with Radio jockeys of local FM Radio stations in Vijayawada. Responding to their queries he emphasised on various developmental measures and initiatives made over the four-year period of the NDA government for the welfare of the youth of the country, women and the girl child. The minister shared his views on the Centre's approach with regard to internal security, sexual harassment of women, relations with neighboring nations.


    Speaking on the initiatives for the state for Andhra Pradesh, the Minister said that the Union Government allocated Rs. 64,000 cr for Development of National Highways in Andhra Pradesh state and a Naval Air Base will be setup in Bobbili, Andhra Pradesh soon at a cost of Rs.3,300 cr. He said the Centre provides 100 percent financial assistance to Polavaram Project and already provided a financial benefit of Rs. 2, 25, 000 Cr to the state. He said the Centre is committed to the development of Andhra Pradesh by giving assistance to the state.


    Shri E. Mariappan, ADG, PIB SCR explained about the achievements of 4 Years of NDA government through a power point presentation during the press conference. He explained about the various developments of 4 years of NDA government.


    *****


    BB/NK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1533921) Visitor Counter : 127