      Ministry of Power

      Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi lays foundation stone for Patratu Super Thermal Power Project
      Posted On: 25 MAY 2018 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone today for the 2400MW first phase of NTPC's Patratu Super Thermal Power Project in Jharkhand. The project is a 74: 26 Joint Venture between Government of Jharkhand (GoJ) and Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. (PVUN), a subsidiary company of NTPC establishing a total capacity expansion of 4,000MW.


    Shri R.K. Singh, Union Minister of State (I/C), Power and New & Renewable Energy and eminent dignitaries from Jharkhand and the Centre were present on the occasion.


    Envisioning the brighter future for Jharkhand , NTPC’s PVUNL is set to develop the project in two phases: 2,400 MW (3x800MW) in Phase-I and 1,600 MW (2x800 MW) in Phase-II, which will be developed later. This project will allocate 85 per cent of the power to Jharkhand that will benefit the state in the long run and help in the economic growth of the region. Under the Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya) scheme, this project will ensure providing 24x7 power availability to the households.


    The project has salient features of Dry Ash disposable system (second to NTPC Dadri), zero liquid discharge system, Air-cooled condenser technology (only second to North Karanpura STPP) and rail loading facility for transportation of ash. The project further complies with the new emission norms with high efficiency ESP, FGD and Nox emission control systems as well.


    The Engineering, Procurement & Construction contract of the project has been awarded to BHEL. The commissioning of the first unit is envisaged in 2022 and subsequently the other two units after an interval of six months each from the preceding unit.


    With NTPC’s commitment towards an inclusive growth and sustainable development with special focus to improve the quality of life in neighbourhood community, PVUN is already providing clean drinking water, regular health camps and skill development of local youths in the adjoining villages. As the project progresses the community development will further focus on employability, health and sanitation, infrastructure development and the education of girl child.


    ****


    JN/MS/SJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533525) Visitor Counter : 433
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil