      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Gadkari instructs officials to speed up Yamuna Action Plan Projects
      Posted On: 25 MAY 2018 1:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari instructed senior Delhi Jal Board (DJB) officials to speed up all the projects of YAP-III Projects while chairing a review meeting yesterday in New Delhi.


    The meeting was attended by Delhi Chief Minister Shri Arvind Kejriwal, Union Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation Dr. Satyapal Singh along with all the contractors, consultants and senior officials of DJB and NMCG.


    National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) has approved eight packages in YAP-III at estimated cost of Rs. 1656 crores. These include four projects in Kondli (K1, K2, K3 and K4), three projects in Rithala (R1a, R1b and R2) and construction of 564 MLD STP in Okhla, Kondli and Rithala projects are regarding rehabilitation of Trunk Sewer and Rising Main. The contracts of four packages i.e. K1, K2, R1a and R2 have been awarded; tenders are under finalisation for three packages i.e. K3, K4 and R1b while bid is to be received for one i.e. Okhla STP.


    Shri Gadkari expressed dissatisfaction on very slow progress of these projects. He said that before issuing contract and work order all the formalities like sight survey, tender process, topo graphical survey, land acquisition etc. shall be complete. He said that centre is ready to give all the support but DJB will have to speed up the process. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and DJB senior officials assured that significant progress has been made in last three months in awarding of projects and they will sincerely make efforts to complete all the projects before schedule.


    Review of construction of 318 MLD (70 MGD) STP at Coronation Pillar and Interception Sewer Project was also done. Likely time of completion of STP at Coronation Pillar is September 2019 while most of work in interception sewer project will be complete by December 2018. It was decided in the meeting that dredged up material and silt may be used in roads by NHAI and meeting with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh officials should be done for Nallas which are polluting Yamuna.


    Review meeting concluded with a resolution to speed up and complete all ongoing projects before scheduled time so that Yamuna, the life line of Delhi, may become healthier & cleaner.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533478) Visitor Counter : 365
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Urdu , Hindi , Tamil