      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      Inauguration of facilities under NATRIP at ICAT Manesar
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2018 5:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of HI&PE, Anant Geete inaugurating the Noise Vibration & Harshness (NVH) Lab at ICAT


    Union Cabinet Minister of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprise (HI & PE), Anant Geete inaugurated the augmented facilities at the National Automotive Testing and RND Infrastructure Project (NATRIP) at the International Centre for Automotive Technology (ICAT) at Manesar in Haryana today.


    ICAT has been rendering services of automotive testing & certification to the industry since 2006. NATRIP is the largest and most significant initiative in the automotive sector which represents a joining of hands between the Government of India, a number of State Governments and Indian Automotive Industry to create a state of the art testing, validation and R&D infrastructure in the country.


    The augmented facilities are of Noise, Vibration & Harshness Lab (NVH), Passive Safety Lab (PSL), Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) Lab and Tyre Test Lab (TTL) and have been completed at ICAT Centre-II at Manesar in Haryana.


    The centre already has fully functional facilities like Powertrain lab, Fatigue lab, Vehicle Evaluation lab, Component lab, CAD-CAE lab and Infotronics lab.


    The newly opened labs have the following facilities:

     1. Noise Vibration & Harshness (NVH) Lab

    The NVH lab is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities such as Semi Anechoic Rooms with dynamometer capabilities for Passenger Cars and Heavy Commercial Vehicles, modal analysis room, coupled acoustic rooms & listening room. The Passenger Car Semi Anechoic Chamber has capability to simulate external Pass By Noise test for development of vehicles to meet present and future regulatory targets.

     1. Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) Lab

    Electromagnetic compatibility is the ability of a vehicle or electrical/electronic component to function satisfactorily in its electromagnetic environment. It has a General Instrumentation room for component level tests like Conducted Immunity, Conducted Transient Emissions and Electrostatic Discharge.

     1. Passive Safety Lab (PSL)

    This lab is equipped with world class test facilities which include full-fledged crash test facilities to conduct Full Frontal, Frontal OBD, Side Impact, Rear Impact etc. crash tests as per Indian and International regulations. It has all types of instrumented crash dummies with dummy calibration facility, high speed cameras, specialized lightings, on board data acquisition system, soak room, pedestrian protection test facility, deceleration sled test facility, airbag test facility etc.

     1. Tyre Test Lab (TTL)

    TTL is providing services related to Type Approval & Conformity of Production of Tyres. ICAT has transformed this lab into Centre of Excellence (COE) by developing new capabilities including the installation of Dual Station Endurance Test Rig and Tyre Rolling Resistance Test Rig.


    ***


    MM/ PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1533777) Visitor Counter : 333
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

1.