      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      National Trust under M/O Social Justice & Empowerment launches ‘Inclusive India Initiative’
      Aspiring for Inclusive Education, Empowerment and community life to persons with intellectual and developmental disabilities
      Posted On: 06 JUN 2017 3:58PM by PIB Mumbai


    The National Trust under Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment in collaboration with key partners organised the conference “Inclusive India Initiative: Towards an Inclusive India” for intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDDs) here today. The ‘Inclusive India Initiative’ of National Trust is specifically catering to persons with intellectual and developmental disabilities; with an objective to include these people in the mainstream and in all important aspects of social life, namely education, employment and community ‘Inclusive India’ in about changing the attitudes.


    The conference was inaugurated by Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment amongst the presence of Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy, Minister of State (I/C) for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Shri Vijay Goel, Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs & Sports and Shri Amitabh Kant, CEO, Niti Aayog, Mr. Yuri Afanasiev, UN Resident Coordinator, Shri N.S. Kang, Secretary, DEPwD, M/o SJ&E, Shri Kamlesh Pandey, Chairman, National Trust and Shri Mukesh Jain, CEO, National Trust and officials from Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment. A vision document on ‘Inclusive India Initiative’ was released and a few MoUs of the National Trust signed with key partners were exchanged on the occasion.


    The Thaawarchand Gehlot, in his inaugural address said that our county has always believed in “ Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam” and the Divyangjans are an integral part of our society. They need proper guidance. The National Trust is playing an important role in the welfare of Divyangjans. He called upon people to take advantage of all 10 schemes of the National Trust. He said that his Ministry provides Skill Development to Divyangjans through “Divyangjan Vitta Vikas Nigam” and make them self dependent. Now, the Divangjans are being provided scholarships for studying in India and abroad both. They are being provided Aids and Assistive devices through nationwide camps and so far more than them 5300 camps have been organised by his Ministry where Aids and Assistive devices worth Rs. 500 crores have been distributed to Divyangjans.


    Addressing on the occasion Shri Vijay Goel said that the in the last Para Olympic Games, Divyangjans have participated exceedingly well and his Ministry of sports have launched a special Portal for future players including Divyangjan players, who will play in the coming Olympic games. He assured of all help and cooperation of his Ministry is promoting and nourishing talents of Divyangjans.


    Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy in his address said that the Divyagjans are specially abled persons whose skills can be enhanced through proper skill development and his Ministry will extend all sort of help and cooperation in this regard.


    Shri Amitabh Kant, CEO, Niti Aayog in his address said that the differently abled persons are very talented with special abilities. Many new programmes have been initiated for their inclusive growth. He opined that we must allow their special potential to blossom.


    The Inclusive India initiative is an attempt to facilitate the realisation of equal opportunities, protection of rights and full participation of individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities into the fabric of society. The three core focus areas of Inclusive India Initiative are Inclusive Education, Inclusive Employment and Inclusive Community Life.


    In the domain of Inclusive Education, large-scale awareness campaigns would be executed on pan-India basis, making the schools and colleges inclusive for the children and adults with intellectual disabilities. Association with government and private organisations will be explored for making the infrastructure of educational institutes accessible and inclusive, by providing necessary mobility aids, assistive devices, accessible information and social support.


    The initiative will engage at least 2000 corporate sector organisations; public and private, for creating awareness towards inclusive employment for persons with intellectual disabilities, during the current financial year. The efforts towards accomplishing inclusive community life can be made successful, only when the people with intellectual and development disabilities, their families, Civil Society organisations and State Government connect. The Inclusive India Initiative was born out of this very need of creating awareness among general public, ensuring that the people becomes sensitive towards the focus the focus group.


    The National Trust is a statutory body of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, set up under the “National Trust for the Welfare of Persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Retardation and Multiple Disabilities” Act (Act 44 of 1999). The National Trust was envisaged with a core mission of providing opportunities for capacity development of Persons with Disabilities and their families, fulfilling their rights, facilitating and promoting the creation of an enabling environment and an inclusive society.


    *****


    APS/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491952) Visitor Counter : 378
    
    

      Background release reference

      ‘Inclusive India Initiative’