      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Leading Importers and Exporters participate in the Mango Buyer Seller Meet
      Posted On: 05 JUN 2017 5:50PM by PIB Mumbai


    Twenty one leading importers from China, Iran, Japan, Australia, Mauritius, Republic of Korea and UAE, participated in the Mango Buyer Seller meet(BSM) organized by APEDA today. More than 100 exporters from across the country participated in the Buyer Seller meet. One of the leading importers M/s Dalian Yidufrom China having a chain of stores interacted with the Indian exporters and expressed his positive response towards the Indian fruit offered. Some of the leading exporters such as M/s Bombay Exports, M/s Asar Brothers, Kaybee Exports, etc. informed about the very good response during the BSM. Another important highlight of the event was wet sampling of different commercial varieties of mango like, Alphonso, Kesar, Banganpalli, Totapuri, Dussheri, Langda, Chausa, etc. Local indigenous varieties of mango like SelamGundu, Mallika, Peter, Rumani, Neelam, HimamPasand, Mulgoa, Kundath, ArkaAnmol, Fazli, etc.


    State horticulture departments from ten mango producing states displayed wide range of varieties grown in respective states. These states were provided with stall for showcasing their products along with their strengths. APEDA showcased range of fresh fruits at its pavilion to sensitize the importers about the offerings by India in fresh sector. Along with the fresh fruits segment, value added products of mango such as MangoPulp, Pickles, Chutneys, Jams & Jellies, Juices, etc. were also displayed.


    The event was inaugurated by Mr. AlokVardhanChaturvedi, Addl. Secretary, Ministry of Commerce & Industry and was joined by Mr. DK Singh, Chairman APEDA, Dr. Shakil P Ahammed, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture &Farmers’ Welfare, Mr. KadireGowda, Managing Director, Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation, Mr. ChiranjivChaudhary, Commissioner Horticulture, Andhra Pradesh, Ms. MadhumitaSinha Ray, Commissioner Horticulture, West Bengal and senior officers from various State Governments.


    On the second day of the BSM, visit of importers to the common infrastructure facilities in Mumbai is being organized to showcase the India’s capability to export quality and pest free produce which will create confidence among the importers.These facilities included, Gamma Irradiation facility, Hot water treatment facility, Vapor Heat treatment facility and integrated pack house.


    ***


    APS/SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1491815) Visitor Counter : 276