      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Collaboration with state government for developmental communication is the need of the hour –Venkaiah Naidu
      I &B Minister holds review meeting of central government media units in Mumbai along with Chief Minister of Maharashtra .

      Posted On: 06 JUN 2017 7:10PM by PIB Mumbai

    The Government’s communication approach ,strategy and focus for Maharashtra would be on development and beneficiaries . Efforts would be to produce content and disseminate information in local languages and dialects to reach out to the people effectively, stating this at a joint press conference with the Chief Minister of Maharashtra after the review meeting Shri Naidu said that All India Radio and Doordarshan have vast infrastructure and reach in the state and they will work in collaboration with the state government .


    The Minister declared that in line with the Skill India vision of the Prime Minister, Ministry of I& B is in the process of setting up a National Centre of Excellence in Animation ,Visual effects ,Gaming and Comics at Film City Mumbai . State government of Maharashtra has allocated 20 acres of Land in Film City ,Mumbai for the institute .


    On the National Museum of Indian Cinema ,Mumbai the Minister informed the media that the work for the museum has received the desired push from the Central government and is likely to be completed by the end of July 2017.The museum will provide a storehouse of information and help film makers, film students, enthusiasts and critics to know and evaluate the development of cinema as a medium of artistic expression.


    Mr Naidu complemented the team of DD News Mumbai as their major prime time bulletins have been consistently ranked 1 st as per the BARC TRP ratings .


    The Minister thanked the state government for its support to FTII, Pune in its transition phase. He said that FTII has now started organising various short Film Appreciation courses in various cities enhancing its reach across the country.


    Mr Naidu requested the state government to help in the process of weeding out bogus publications in the state of Maharashtra. He informed that in the country already more than 800 publications have been withdrawn and around 270 FIRs have been filed against fraudulent papers.


    On the subject of radio broadcast the minister said the under FM phase III ,thirty three more private FM channels have been proposed for the state of Maharashtra .


    ****


    PIB/APS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491999) Visitor Counter : 272