      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Progress of urban development and housing schemes in Maharashtra reviewed
      Shri M Venkaiah Naidu and Maharashtra Chief Minister address joint press conference

      Posted On: 06 JUN 2017 5:49PM by PIB Mumbai

    Implementation and progress in Maharashtra of various new urban development and affordable housing missions in Maharashtra launched over the last three years was reviewed by Union Minister of Urban Development ,Housing and Urban poverty alleviation and Information and Broadcasting Shri M Venkaiah Naidu and Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis in Mumbai today .Addressing a joint press conference after the meeting Shri Naidu said . “I am happy to inform you that during the last three years, the central government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved a total investment of Rs.67,523 cr for improving urban infrastructure in Maharashtra under the new missions and for metro projects. This is the highest investment approved for any State so far. This would further increase as more investments would follow under Housing for All Mission for affordable housing in urban areas of the State.“


     1. the Swacch Bharat Mission, the Minister was happy to announce that of the 384 cities and towns with statutory local bodies in Maharashtra, 263 have so far been declared Open Defecation Free. In fact, Maharashtra was the first to shift focus from building toilets to outcomes in the form of cities becoming ODF and this approach has been subsequently extended to other States by the Central Government.


    On the Smart City Mission the Minister said Maharashtra has the credit of having the highest number of seven cities among the 60 cities selected so far. These are; Pune, Sholapur, Kalyan Dombivili, Nagpur, Nashik, Thane and Aurnagabad. These seven smart mission cities have identified 218 projects which are under implementation and tendering. The review has revealed that this mission is on course.


     1. the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), Shri Naidu stated that under this mission, about 16 lakh households in 44 mission cities will be provided with water taps by 2019 besides enabling water supply at the normative level of 135 litres per head per day. The significance of implementation of this mission is that out of the total urban population in Maharashtra, 76% live in 44 cities included under Atal Mission. As a result basic urban infrastructure relating to universal coverage of water supply, substantial expansion of sewerage and drainage networks, non-motorised transport and open and green spaces is being provided under five year action plans, for the first time in the country.


    On Affordable housing –PMAY (Urban) the Minister said that of the 36,000 beneficiaries who have availed the benefit of interest subsidy under PMAY (Urban), 10,721 were from Maharashtra, accounting for 30% of the total such beneficiaries. Maharashtra is among the few States who have notified Real Estate Rules and set up Regulatory Authorities.


    During the review, it was revealed that in the next five to six years Maharashtra would have operational metro projects with a total length of 360 kms on the completion of nine more metro and mono rail projects being taken up by MMRDA. A total investment of about Rs.1,40,000 lakh cr would flow into these metro projects. This would increase daily metro users to about one crore per day.


    Mr. Venkaiah Naidu also revealed that during the review, it was agreed that the State Government would now on focus on solid waste management since only about 25% of solid waste being generated in the cities and towns of the State is now being processed.


    Complementing the Chief Minister of Maharashtra and his team Mr. Venkaiah Naidu said that Urban transformation is the need of the hour and is a challenging task. To achieve this, the country needs political leadership with vision, passion, commitment and conviction at the State and City level to make a difference to the state of affairs in our cities and towns.


    *****


    PIB/APS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1491985) Visitor Counter : 292
    
    
    
    
    

1.