      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Shri Pabitra Buragohain, President, Federation of Industry & Commerce of North Eastern Region meets DoNER Minister Dr Jitendra Singh
      Shri Pabitra Buragohain assures support for GST rollout by North East industry
      Posted On: 15 JUN 2017 4:43PM by PIB Mumbai


    The President of Federation of Industry & Commerce of North Eastern Region (FINER), Shri Pabitra Buragohain met the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh, here today. During the meeting, among the other important issues related to the growth of industry in India, the subject of GST rollout from July was also discussed in detail. Shri Pabitra Buragohain expressed his views on the GST and on the tax provisions relating to North Eastern industrial products.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that GST will play an essential role in positioning India nation in the global economy and contribute to the strengthening of the economy. He said that this is important particularly for the North East region, which can take advantage of the uniformity in the tax regime throughout country. It will also help in curbing tax evasion, he added.


    Shri Pabitra Buragohain assured the Minister that the industry will cooperate in the Government’s decision of rolling out GST in North East. Addressing some of the concerns raised by him, Dr Jitendra Singh said that there will be certain relaxations and adjustments in the beginning phase. He said that the connectivity issues in the North Eastern region are also being adequately addressed for the successful implementation of the GST in this region.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that the GST will surely contribute to the development and overall growth of the economy of the country including the remote areas like North Eastern Region by providing ‘One Nation, One Tax’ regime.


    *****


    APS/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492899) Visitor Counter : 278