      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi participates in various programmes on completion of 3 years of NDA Government
      Minority Affairs Minister briefs about Achievements of the NDA Government

      Posted On: 08 JUN 2017 5:42PM by PIB Mumbai

    Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs (Independent Charge), Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that the last three years of the NDA Government have been years of “Confidence, Commitment & Character”. During his Panipat visit, Shri Naqvi participated in various programmes including cleanliness drive, Minorities’ conference, “Vichar Baithak” today. Shri Naqvi met the people and informed them about achievements of the NDA Government.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that more than 2 crore free domestic LPG connections were given to poor families in the last three years and more than 1 crore people have given it up their subsidy. Shri Naqvi said that “Jan Dhan accounts” of more than 26 crore people have been opened in three years. More than 13 crore poor people have been included in various social security schemes. About 50,000 crore of public money has been saved through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) which has eliminated middlemen. Employment opportunities have been provided to 7 crore 45 lakh by providing without guarantee loan worth Rs 3 lakh crore. 70 per cent of the beneficiaries are women and also a large number of people belonging to SC/ST classes, backward classes and Minorities. More than 2 crore toilets have been constructed in 2016-17, investment worth Rs 1 lakh 43 thousand crore has come in electronics manufacturing under “Make in India”.
    
    Informing the people about achievements of the Ministry of Minority Affairs, Shri Naqvi said that the 3 years the Modi government are reflection of “empowerment without appeasement” policy. Our focus was on “3E- Education, Employment & Empowerment”. “Progress Panchayat”, “Less Cash Chaupal”, coordination meetings with the states were important measures.
    
    More than 2 lakh women were provided leadership training under “Nai Raushni”. Budget of Minority Affairs Ministry has been increased after about 10 years in 2017-18. It has been increased to Rs 4195 crore from Rs 3827.25 crore in 2016-17.
    
    The achievements of Ministry of Minority Affairs also include: Scholarships worth Rs 4740 crore to 1 crore 82 lakh students; scholarships worth Rs 166 crore to 1 lakh 38 thousand 426 girl students under “Begum Hazrat Mahal Scholarship; more than 5 lakh 20 thousand youths including about 40 per cent women, covered under various job-oriented skill training; establishing 33 degree colleges; 223 multi-purpose “Sadbhav Mandap” and 18 Gurukul type residential schools in last six years; significant increase in annual Haj quota.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that launching “Tehreek-e-Taleem”, campaign for education; organising “Hunar Haat”, to provide market-opportunity to master artisans across the country; establishing “Hunar Hub” in all the states; organising “Usttad Samman Samagam”; establishing 5 international level educational institutes; 100 Gurukul-Navoday type schools in minority concentrated areas and reviving option of sending Haj pilgrims through sea route also will be our steps to be taken in the coming months.
    

    ****


    APS/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492276) Visitor Counter : 317