      Ministry of Education

      HRD Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar felicitated National Science Talents of 2016-17
      Posted On: 14 JUN 2017 5:21PM by PIB Mumbai


    Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar felicitates National Science Talents of the Year 2016-17 in New Delhi today. The winners were awarded with mementoes and certificates by the Minister.
    
    Vijnana Bharati (VIBHA) jointly with Vigyan Prasar – an autonomous institution under Department of Science & Technology and National Council of Education and Research Training (NCERT) – Ministry of Human Resource Development has organized the National Science Talent Search for Future India Vidyarthi Vigyan Manthan (VVM) across the country.
    
    1.4 lakh students from 1472 schools from all the 29 states and 5 union territories from class VI-XI participated in the exam. Out of this 2400 students were declared as state level winners. Through 20 camps 264 students were selected as National level winners from 2400 students. These 264 students have undergone a two-day national camp at IIT Delhi, under an academic committee of eminent scientists and selected 18 students as national science talents of the year named as HIMALAYANS.
    
    One of the major objectives of the programme is to evolve student’s more affinity towards science and encourage them to take science as their future career. VIBHA published two books namely Biography of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam and Indian contributions to Science from Tradition to Modern as the study material for the enrolled students of Vidyarthi Vigyan Manthan.
    
    The Minister told the students to follow their passion because unless we don’t follow our passion we don’t reach the destination we want in life. He added that talent, dedication, determination to work hard and discipline is the key to the success. He also congratulated the proud parents of the students and asked them to motivate their children for their bright future.

    *****


    APS/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492796) Visitor Counter : 324