      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Mehrishi flags-in ITBP’s Mount Dhaulagiri-1 Expedition
      Posted On: 27 JUN 2017 4:51PM by PIB Mumbai


    Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Mehrishi and Director General of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) Shri Krishna Chaudhary flagged-in the first Mount Dhaulagiri-1 (8167 Mtr) International Mountaineering Expedition-2017 of ITBP at the Force HQ here today. Appreciating the contribution and achievements of ITBP in mountaineering, Shri Mehrishi conveyed his congratulations to the Leader and team members of the Expedition.


    Shri Mehrishi said that the ITBP is a unique mountain trained Force and the working conditions in the Himalayas test mountaineering skills of the Force personnel. He hoped that the Force will continue to excel in mountaineering and contribute to bring more laurels for the country in future as well. Describing about the successful expedition, Shri Krishna Chaudhary, DG, ITBP said that six ITBP Mountaineers were able to successfully summit Dhaulagiri-1 which has been the first such mission by the Force on the peak. The team negotiated different challenges and did typical technical climbing at stretches. Shri Arjun Singh, Commandant led the 25-member expedition team.


    Mt. Dhaulagiri-1 is the 7th highest peak of the world situated in Nepal. Five members of the Force - Shri Rattan Singh Sonal, 2I/C, HC/GD Pradeep Kumar, Ct/GD Nurbo Wangdus, Ct/GD Sanjay Kumar, Ct/GD Pradeep Panwar reached the top of the mountain on May 19, 2017 and one member, HC/GD Krishan Prasad, scaled the peak the next day. Three high altitude Sherpas also successfully climbed the peak with the team.


    The Expedition was flagged off by Shri Mehrishi and Shri Chaudhary at Force HQ on March 10, 2017. ITBP has the unique record of conducting 207 successful mountaineering expeditions.


    On the occasion, Shri Mehrishi released the new and modified version of ITBP Force Song. Bollywood singer Sonu Nigam has lent his voice free of cost to the song.


    ***


    APS/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493851) Visitor Counter : 291