      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Shri Kalraj Mishra Gives Away National Awards for MSME 2015
      Also Launches Digital MSME Scheme
      
      3 MoUs Exchanged with SAP India, Intel and HMT

      Posted On: 27 JUN 2017 4:56PM by PIB Mumbai

    National Awards for MSME 2015 was organized here today. Shri Kalraj Mishra, Union Minister for MSME gave away the MSME Awards 2015. Since the United Nations has declared 27th June as the UN Day for MSMEs, the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises has selected this day for distributing National Awards to Micro, Small and Medium Entrepreneurs for their outstanding performance, to express the gratitude of the Government to the achievers in this field which is so important for the national economy.


    Shri Giriraj Singh and Shri Haribhai P. Chaudhary, Ministers of State for MSME were also present to grace the occasion. Shri KK Jalan, Secretary MSME, Shri Surendra Nath Tripathi, Development Commissioner, Shri. Vinai Kumar Saxena, Chairman, KVIC, Shri C.P. Radhakrishnan, Chairman, Coir Board also were present on the occasion.


    On this occasion the Union Minister for MSME Shri Kalraj Mishra also launched ‘Digital MSME Scheme’ and handed over three Memorandums of Understandings to SAP India, Intel and HMT respectively. These steps would further boost Ministry’s effort towards making the Digital India Mission successful. The Digital MSME Scheme is revolving around Cloud Computing which is emerging as a cost effective and viable alternative in comparison to in-house IT infrastructure installed by MSMEs. In cloud computing, MSMEs use the internet to access common as well as tailor-made IT infrastructure including software for managing their business processes. Cloud computing is free from the burden of investment on hardware/software and infrastructural facilities. Therefore CAPEX converts into OPEX. This scheme would encourage MSMEs towards this new approach i.e. Cloud Computing for ICT adoption


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Kalraj Mishra, Union Minister for MSME informed that for the year 2015 the total number of National Awardees are 56 for various categories, including 50 for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and 6 for Banks. He also said that the Ministry of MSME is making concrete efforts in line with ‘Digital India’ and ‘Make in India’ visions of the Speaking on the occasion, Sh. Kalraj Mishra, Hon’ble Union Minister (MSME) informed that for the year 2015 the total number of National Awardees are 56 for various categories, including 50 for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and 6 for Banks. He also said that the Ministry of MSME is making concrete efforts in line with ‘Digital India’ and ‘Make In India’ visions of the Hon’ble Prime Minister. He congratulated the award winners for achieving excellence in various fields and expressed his hope that other enterprises in the sector would emulate the examples set by the awardees. He exhorted the MSME sector to walk the path of ZED and Lean manufacturing to make Hon’ble Prime Minister’s dream a reality.


    Union Minister of State for MSME, Shri Haribhai P. Chaudhary stated that the importance of MSMEs and their contribution to the economic and social development of India could not be overemphasized. The MSME sector including Khadi & Village Industries and Coir Sector is the largest employer, after agriculture. The MSMEs have shown growth of over 10% in recent years, this being more than that recorded by the large corporates. The MSMEs provide employment to over 110 million persons through over 50 million enterprises producing over six thousand products. In view of its importance in the national economy, the MSME Sector has always been in the top priority of the present Government. He also listed out the achievements made in MSME sector during the last three years. Further, the Government has also extended the coverage of the loans covered under the Credit Guarantee Scheme from Rs. 1 Crore to Rs. 2 Crore and the corpus of Credit Guarantee Fund has also been enhanced from Rs. 2500 crore to Rs. 7500 crore to facilitate collateral free loans to Micro & Small Enterprises.


    Union Minister of State for MSME, Shri Giriraj Singh stated that M/o MSME, as per the vision of Hon’ble Prime Minister, has taken a number of steps for ‘ease of doing business’ and ‘Digital India Mission’. Udyog Adhaar Memorandum launched in September, 2015, an online portal linked with Aadhaar number, can be filed within few minutes with no fee and on self certification basis. Furthermore, MSMEs can now access information on all schemes implemented by the Ministry on a single window at MyMSME mobile app.


    Background:


    Recognizing the achievements of successful entrepreneurs in the MSME sector, in the form of exceptional entrepreneurial capability, excellent product quality and excellence in exports, Innovation and Lean Manufacturing Techniques, the Union Government decided to encourage them by giving the national awards. The First, Second and Third National Awards carry a cash prize of Rs. 1,00,000/-, in each category, a certificate and a trophy. Special Awards are given to honour one outstanding woman entrepreneur, one outstanding entrepreneur from SC/ST community and one entrepreneur from North Eastern Region, and the best divyang entrepreneur. The event aims not only to recognize the contribution made by the entrepreneurs but also aims to encourage the participation of rural and urban population in the country’s trade and commerce including the economically and socially backward people.


    The awards are also given to Banks in recognition of their outstanding efforts in providing credit support to the Micro and Small Enterprises. Three National Awards each under two categories namely Excellence in MSE lending and Excellence in lending to Micro Enterprises to Public Sector Banks are given. The First and Second Awards in each category are given to the major Public Sector Banks & a special award is given to one of the Associate Banks of State Bank of India. The awards are given in the form of Trophies along with Certificates.


    ****


    APS/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493854) Visitor Counter : 268