      Ministry of Communications

      Aadhaar updation facility inaugurated in GPO Mumbai
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2017 4:57PM by PIB Mumbai


    Department of Post in agreement with UIDAI has decided to provide Aadhar Updation facility in selected Post Offices of Maharashtra Circle which would facilitate residents in updating their demographic aadhaar details. Aadhaar updation facilty was inaugurated in Mumbai today.


    Aadhaar has been given to more than 113 crore people in India. The Central government has issued various notifications wherein it has prescribed requirement of Aadhaar for availing various services and benefits such as opening of Bank accounts, Income Tax returns, Pass Port, Ration card etc. Government of Maharashtra has also issued various notification, birth registration, minority scholarship scheme etc.


    Reportedly around 11.25 crore people residing in Maharashtra and 15.42 lakhs people in Goa have obtained Aadhaar Cards which is 95% and 100% of the population respectively.


    The Aadhaar holders are required to keep the demographic details such as mobile number, email id, address updated in the Aadhaar database for availing the benefits of Aadhaar related services provided by Central and State government. They also sometimes require to update other details such as name and photograph. There has been growing demand for Aadhaar updation across the country and this demand is likely to increase as more and more services start requiring Aadhaar.


    The Aadhaar holders have easy and convenient access to the Post offices. Hence the Department of Posts has decided to provide aadhaar Updation facility across major Post offices in Maharashtra and Goa.


    Department of Posts is already a registrar of UIDAI. Maharashtra Circle has now become Enrolment Agency of UIDAI for providing Aadhaar Updation and Enrolment facility. The Post office staff is being trained and certified by UIDAI to handle this work skilfully. Necessary devices and equipment are being procured by the postal department.


    ****


    PIB/NS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493363) Visitor Counter : 258