      President's Secretariat

      Scroll Presentation at College of Military Engineering by the President, Shri Pranab Mukherjee
      Posted On: 17 JUN 2017 5:41PM by PIB Mumbai


    Pune , June 17, 2017


    In a splendid convocation ceremony at the Sarvatra Hall of the College of Military Engineering, Pune, five officers of Master of Technology, 35 officers of Engineer Officers Degree Engineering Course and 29 officers of Technical Entry Scheme Course were awarded degrees in Civil Engineering under the aegis of Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Shri Pranab Mukherjee, Honorable President of India graced the occasion as Chief Guest and presented the Scrolls and Awards to the officers. Shri C Vidyasagar Rao, Governor of Maharashtra, Lieutenant General DR Soni, VSM, Lieutenant General Suresh Sharma, AVSM, Dr M Jagadesh Kumar, Vice Chancellor, JNU were amongst other dignitaries attending the function.


    In a packed auditorium, the solemn ceremony was witnessed by officers, ladies, parents and relatives of the graduating officers.


    Lieutenant General Michael Mathews, VSM** Commandant, College of Military Engineering addressed the graduating officers and advised them to continuously hone their professional skills by keeping abreast with the latest developments in the field of engineering. He stressed upon the importance of high morals and impeccable integrity and advised the graduating officers to be sincere and relevant. He also gave a brief historical background of the prestigious College of Military Engineering stating the highest standards of professionalism and academic excellence maintained by it for the past 75 years with the Platinum Jubilee Celebration of the Institution from Sep 2017 onwards.


    Shri Pranab Mukherjee, Honourable President of India, in his Valedictory address, emphasized that as engineers in uniform, the graduating officers would face greater challenges in view of the increasing complexities in the infrastructural requirements of the Defence Forces, especially in inhospitable terrain and on our mountainous borders. In order to meet these challenges, he urged the young officers to keep themselves updated with the advancements in the technology.


    The prestigious Gold Medals in Civil Engineering Discipline were awarded to Lieutenant Colonel Rohit Oberoi of M Tech - 04, Captain Vijay Kumar Yadav of EODE-114 and Lieutenant Manish Kumar of TES-27 for standing first in the order of merit in their respective courses.


    The student officers also displayed the projects undertaken by them and they were highly appreciated by the Chief Guest for their quality of work and innovative thinking by the student officers.


    *******


    PIB/MA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493113) Visitor Counter : 258