      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Aviation sector will drive the economy forward – Jayant Sinha
      Affordable flying will reach out to smaller towns
      
      Digiyatra to make the flying experience paperless
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2017 2:40PM by PIB Mumbai


    The aviation sector is poised for a very significant growth as aviation is going to be one of the major sectors that will drive the economy. This was stated by Shri Jayant Sinha Minister of State for Civil Aviation at the airports investment summit in Mumbai today.


    Aviation is a sunrise sector and growing at 12% annually. The government plan for expansion of airport infrastructure and regional connectivity reflects the growth potential of this sector. Shri Jayant Sinha said “the last three years have been very important as a number of policy initiatives have been taken by the government; FDI in the aviation sector is 100%this makes it one of the most open sectors; passenger centric measures have been taken like the air seva portal; safety is the number one priority and the government plans to make digiyatra a seamless experience of paperless digital travel for the passengers.”


    On expansion of airports the Minister said that compared with large continental economies like US and China India has a long way to go .The country needs 150 to 200 airports so that 90% of the population is within an hour or an hour and a half from any airport. 31 new airports will be coming up with an investment of Rs 200 crores. One airport per year is being added.


    The IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry is organising the Airports Investment Summit in Mumbai with the support of Ministry of Civil Aviation . It is estimated that the current pace of airport infrastructure and related development requires huge investment and funding of about USD 130 Bn and thus the current conference assumes greater significance. The two day meet is likely to showcase various opportunities for the entities engaged in the aviation sector and would bring national and international delegates on a common platform for dissemination of information and ideas.


    ****


    PIB/IJ(APS)


    

    
    (Release ID: 1493324) Visitor Counter : 496