      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi Inaugurated “Hunar Haat” at India International Trade Fair, New Delhi
      
      Hunar Haat providing market and opportunity to Master Artisans and Craftsmen

      Posted On: 15 NOV 2018 1:23PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today formally inaugurated “Hunar Haat” at Pragati Maidan in New Delhi. Which has become a “Credible Brand” for empowerment of artisans and craftsmen. This “Hunar Haat” is being organised from 14 th November to 27 th November, 2018 at IITF, Pragati Maidan.


    “Hunar Haat” at Pragati Maidan, is a part of series of “Hunar Haat”, being organised in various parts of the country under a mission to provide market and employment opportunities to master artisans and craftsmen.


    On this occasion Shri Naqvi said that “Hunar Haat” has proved to be “Empowerment & Employment Exchange” for master artisans and craftsmen. He said that master artisans, including a large number of women artisans, from across the country are participating in this “Hunar Haat”. The artisans have brought with them very exquisite pieces of Handicraft & Handloom work products like Ajarakh, Bagh print, Bandhej, Barmer Ajrakh & Applique, Bidriware, Cane and Bamboo, Carpet, Chanderi, Chaniya Choli, Chikankari, Copper Bell Product, Copperware, Ceramic Products, Dry Flowers, Gota Pati, Handloom & Home Furnishings from every corner of the country. Products such as Jute Craft, Lac stone studded Bangles, Lacquer ware, Linen Products, Metalware, Mudwork, Mulberry Silk, Paithani Silk, Phulkari, Punjabi Jutti, Zari Bags, etc are also available. For the first time, products from Chhattisgarh and Namda & Chinnon Silk of Jammu & Kashmir are also available in this “Hunar Haat”.


    Shri Naqvi said that the employment oriented programmes of the Central Government like “Hunar Haat” has significantly encouraged and promoted the rich traditional heritage of master artisans which had been marginalised for a long time. The Minister said that “Hunar Haat” has become a “credible brand” to fulfil Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s commitment to “Make in India”, “Stand up India”, “Start up India”. During the last one year, “Hunar Haat”, organised at various parts of the country, has been successful in providing employment and employment opportunities to more than 1 lakh 50 thousand artisans and other people associated with them. The target is to provide employment and employment opportunities to about 5 lakh people of the country through “Hunar Haat”.


    Shri Naqvi said that “Hunar Haat” has significantly encouraged and promoted the rich traditional heritage of master artisans. “Hunar Haat” has been successful in providing national and international markets and employment-employment opportunities to master artisans and craftsmen.


    Earlier, “Hunar Haat” had been organised at Allahabad (Sept, 2018), Pragati Maidan (2016, 2017) and Baba Kharak Singh Marg (2017, 2018) at New Delhi; Puducherry (2017, 2018) and Mumbai (2017). In the coming days, “Hunar Haat” will be organised at Mumbai (December 2018), Baba Kharak Singh Marg, New Delhi (January 2019) and Goa (February 2019).


    ******


    RCJ/FH/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552819) Visitor Counter : 1350
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Tamil