      Ministry of Education

      Ministry of HRD and MyGov jointly organise online essay competition
      
      Under the theme 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat-Swatantra Bharat' to mark Independence Day

      Posted On: 06 AUG 2020 2:15PM by PIB Delhi

    In the run up to the Independence Day celebrations in the country, the Ministry of Human Resource Development in partnership with MyGov is organizing an online essay writing competition for specific age of school students (IX to X or Secondary Stage and XI to XII or Higher Secondary) across the country. The NCERT will be the Nodal Agency for this event.


    The subtopics under the main topic for essay writing, that is, “Atma Nirbhar Bharat-Swatantra Bharat” are as follows:


    1. For Atma Nirbhar Bharat the Indian Constitution and Democracy are the biggest enablers.


    2. India at 75: A Nation Marching towards Atmanirbhar Bharat


    3. Atma Nirbhar Bharat through Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat: Innovation thrives when there is unity in diversity


    4. Digital India: Opportuinities in COVID-19 and Beyond


    5. Atma Nirbhar Bharat-Role of students in National Development


    6. Atma Nirbhar Bharat-Independence from gender, caste and ethnic biases.


    7. Atma Nirbhar Bharat: Making of a new India through Bio-Diversity and Agricultural Prosperity.


    8. While I exercise my rights I must not forget to undertake my duties to usher in an Atma Nirbhar Bharat.


    9. My physical fitness is my wealth that will build the human capital for Atma Nirbhar Bharat


    10. Conserve Blue to Go Green for an Atma Nirbhar Bharat.


    Selection of essays will be taken up at two levels. Firstly, States/UTs level will finalise the essays. Next the selected 10 essays from each state will become the pool of selected essays for the final selections at national level by a team of experts decided by NCERT. 30 essays will be selected in each category i.e. Secondary stage and Higher Secondary stage by the NCERT. Prizes will be announced for the national level winners soon.


    Students may submit their entries on the link below by 14th August, 2020:


    https://innovate.mygov.in/essay-competition


    *****


    NB/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1643720) Visitor Counter : 3572
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu