      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President advises other nations to refrain from commenting on India’s internal matters;
      
      Abrogation of Article 370 was done to protect unity, integrity, safety and sovereignty of the country: Vice President;
      
      Vice President pays rich tributes to former Union Minister, Smt. Sushma Swaraj on her first death anniversary;
      
      The values and ideals espoused by Sushma Ji will continue to inspire everybody for all times: Vice President;
      
      VP urges young politicians to emulate qualities of Smt. Sushma Swaraj
      
      Sushma Ji was seen as an epitome of Indian culture: Vice President
      
      Vice President delivers the first Sushma Swaraj memorial lecture organised by Panjab University
      
      Posted On: 06 AUG 2020 1:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu today advised other nations, including those in the neighbourhood, to refrain from commenting on India’s internal matters and asserted that the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir was taken in the larger interest to protect the unity, integrity safety and sovereignty of the country.


    Delivering the first Smt. Sushma Swaraj Memorial Lecture, organised by the Panjab University on the first death anniversary of the former external affairs minister, the Vice President, pointed out that India was a parliamentary democracy and the decision to abrogate Article 370 was taken after detailed discussion in the Parliament and with the support of majority of the members.


    Shri Naidu wanted other nations to mind their own issues rather than interfering in the affairs of other countries.


    Referring to the feelings expressed by Smt. Sushma Swaraj on Article 370 before she passed away, the Vice President said that as the External Affairs Minister, she used to articulate India’s position quite efficiently and in a sweet and sober manner. But at the same time, she used to convey the stand of the country in a firm manner.


    Paying glowing tributes to Smt. Sushma Swaraj, he described her as an ideal Indian woman. She was an able administrator who left an indelible imprint on every position she had held.


    Urging young politicians to look up to her as a role model and emulate her qualities, Shri Naidu said Smt. Sushma Ji was a wonderful human being, who was always considerate and prompt in her response for any request, be it friends, supporters or people at large. "The fact that she was elected to the Lok Sabha on seven occasions and to the Assembly thrice shows how immensely popular she was with the people," he added.


    Referring to her qualities, he said her wit, humane nature and promptness in responding to any problem were in full display on the social media when she was the External Affairs Minister. The Vice President said she was loved by millions of countrymen and was one of the most popular Indian foreign ministers in recent times.


    The Vice President said Smt. Swaraj was a brilliant orator and recalled the effective manner in which she described 'Bharatiyata' during a debate in Lok Sabha in 1996. The purity of language, choice of words and clarity of thought were some of the factors that made her a popular speaker.


    The Vice President said that she was a passionate nationalist and always expressed her views in a forthright manner.


    Describing Smt. Swaraj as an epitome of Indian culture, the Vice President said that she was a blend of modern thinking and traditional values. He said Smt. Sushma Swaraj used to be like a family member and recalled how she used to visit their residence and tie Rakhi on his wrist for Raksha Bandhan. "Remembering our cherished bonding, I became emotional when the country celebrated the festival a few days ago," he added.


    Commending Panjab University Alumni Association and the Department of Laws for deciding to organize a memorial lecture in honour of Smt. Sushma Swaraj every year, the Vice President reminded that memorial lectures or commemorative events were not just for paying tributes but also meant to inspire the younger generation to emulate the qualities of great men and women.


    The Vice Chancellor of Panjab University, Raj Kumar, Ms. Bansuri Swaraj, daughter of Smt. Sushma Swaraj and others were present on the occasion.


    The following is the full text of speech:


    As we gather today to remember and pay homage to late Smt. Sushma Swaraj, I am still unable to come to terms with the fact that it has been a year since she left for heavenly abode. She was my dear sister, who used to visit our house on every Raksha Bandhan to tie Rakhi on my wrist. Remembering our cherished bonding, I became emotional when the country celebrated the festival a few days ago.


    Sushma Ji was like a member of our family. We used to turn to her for advice and help when we were new to Delhi. She was a wonderful human being, who was always considerate and prompt in her response for any request. Indeed that’s how she was with everybody, be it friends, supporters and the people at large.


    Sushma Ji’s wit, humane nature and promptness in responding to any problem were in full display on the social media when she was the External Affairs Minister. She endeared herself to millions of countrymen and became one of the most popular Indian foreign ministers in recent times.


    कैसा संयोग है, जिस पंजाब विश्विद्यालय ने देश को सुषमा स्वराज जी जैसा यशस्वी नेता दिया, मुझे उस विश्विद्यालय के चांसलर होने का गौरव प्राप्त हुआ है। ऐसे मेधावी विद्यार्थियों से ही किसी शिक्षा संस्थान की कीर्ति बढ़ती है। सुषमा जी की भाषा और भाषणों के तो हम सभी मुरीद रहे। भाषा की शुद्धता, शब्दों का चयन, विचारों में निष्ठा, अकाट्य तर्क और तथ्य, उनको एक लोकप्रिय वक्ता बना देते थे। मुझे बताया गया कि भाषण कला का यह हुनर भी उन्होंने पंजाब विश्वविद्यालय की भाषण प्रतियोगिताओं में ही सीखा, जिन्हें वे हर वर्ष जीतती रहीं। इस विश्वविद्यालय से जो सीखा, उस हुनर का उन्होंने राष्ट्रीय और अंतरराष्ट्रीय पटल पर प्रभावी प्रयोग भी किया। देश के लिए और अपने इस संस्थान के लिए ख्याति अर्जित की।


    She made a mark as a dynamic leader at very young age and became cabinet minister in Haryana when she was 25 years. She also had many firsts during her illustrious career—she was the first woman general secretary of her party, the first woman Chief Minister of Delhi.


    The fact that she was elected to the Lok Sabha on seven occasions and to the Assembly thrice shows how immensely popular she was with the people. She was a passionate nationalist and always expressed her views in a forthright manner. The effective manner in which she described Bharatiyata during a debate in Lok Sabha in 1996 is still fresh in my memory. Indeed, she was a brilliant orator and everyone used listen to her with rapt attention.


    सुषमा जी की हिंदी सुनने और सभी के समझने लायक होती थी। उनके शब्दों का चयन शुद्ध होता था। फिर भी उनका भाषण इतना सहज और सरल लगता था कि श्रोता मंत्र मुग्ध हो कर सुनते थे। संस्कृत के प्रति उनका विशेष आग्रह होता, वे अपनी शपथ संस्कृत में ही लेती थी। हरियाणा की निवासी होने की वजह से हरियाणवी हिंदी पर उनका अधिकार होना तो स्वाभाविक था, लेकिन कर्नाटक में चुनाव लड़ते समय कन्नड़ भाषा में उनके धारा प्रवाह भाषण, उनको सचमुच बहु भाषा भाषी बनाते थे। भारतीय भाषाओं के प्रति उनका अनुराग हम सबके लिए अनुकरणीय है। कोई भी भाषा कभी भी कमतर हो ही नहीं सकती, क्योंकि वो हमारा अपनी संस्कृति और संस्कारों से परिचय कराती है। भाषा, राजनैतिक विचारों और संसदीय आदर्शों के प्रति उनकी निष्ठा के कारण ही भारत की संसद ने उन्हें Outstanding Parliamentarian का सम्मान प्रदान किया था।


    Sushma Ji was seen as an epitome of Indian culture. She was a blend of modern thinking and traditional values. She was always respectful towards seniors and elders.


    She was one of the most affable Indian politicians and treated everybody with warmth and affection. The fact that she was admired across the popular spectrum is a testament to her friendly disposition.


    Sushma Ji was an able administrator and left an indelible imprint on every position held by her. For instance, the film sector’s long-pending request for granting an industry sector was conceded during her tenure as Information & Broadcasting Minister.


    Today as we pay homage to her, I urge young politicians to look upon her as a role model and emulate her qualities.


    Sushma Ji, who was an alumnus of the Panjab University, made her alma mater and the country proud with her numerous accomplishments and contribution to nation building. I commend the Panjab University Alumni Association and the Department of Laws for deciding to organize a memorial lecture in her honour every year. Please remember that memorial lectures or commemoration events are meant to not only pay tributes but also inspire the younger generation to emulate the qualities of great men and women. The values and ideals espoused by Sushma Ji will continue to inspire everybody at all times.


    Thank You!


    *********


    VRRK/MS/MSY/DP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1643698) Visitor Counter : 787
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam