      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      The top finalists under ‘AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challeng’e to show their apps live in a Mega Hackathon tomorrow
      Posted On: 06 AUG 2020 8:45PM by PIB Delhi


    A Mega Hackathon will be organised on August 7, 2020, where the top finalists selected under The ‘AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge’ across categories will be showcasing their Apps. The Mega Hackathon will be streamed LIVE from 12 PM – 5 PM on Social Media platforms of MyGov India and Digital India.


    The ‘AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge’, was launched by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 4, 2020 which saw participation from 6,940 tech entrepreneurs and start-ups across the country. The mega Challenge had entries for 9 different categories namely Business, eLearning, Entertainment, Games, Health, News, Office and Work from Home, Others and Social.


    Jury members comprising of experts from Industry, Academia and Government evaluated the Apps, shortlisted after screening, through presentations made over 5 days from July 31 – August 4, 2020. The Jury had a challenging time in selecting the finalists as budding entrepreneurs from all over the country had displayed novel solutions across all domains.


    On August 7, 2020, the top finalists across categories will be showcasing their Apps through a Mega Hackathon which will be streamed LIVE from 12 PM – 5 PM on Social Media platforms of MyGov India and Digital India.


    The Challenge has seen excellent Apps that have the potential of being leaders in their categories. Many of the Apps have been developed by women entrepreneurs who have shown how innovation and technology can help create value and successful enterprises. The AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge has been a huge opportunity for tech developers to participate from not only metropolitan cities but also Tier 2 and 3 towns. This Challenge is envisaged to showcase India as one of the leading App developing countries globally.


    RCJ/M


    

    
    (Release ID: 1643893) Visitor Counter : 548
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Telugu , Tamil