      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Webinar on New Technologies for various Products related to COVID 19 for MSMEs with focus of Water Purification Technologies
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2020 3:11PM by PIB Delhi


    Prof.(Dr.) Harish Hirani, Director, CSIR-CMERI and ShriVishwa Mohan Jha, Director, MSME-DI, Patna,deliberated upon the latest CSIR-CMERI developed COVID 19 technologieswith focus on Water Purification Technologiesin an engagingWebinar held on 7 th August 2020 .


    The main objective of this Webinar was to make the industries/ entrepreneur under MSME aware about the technologies developed by CSIR-CMERI, provide total engineering solution and the facilities available in CSIR-CMERI


    Prof.Hirani gave a thorough and highly analytical presentation on the array of CSIR-CMERI technology interventions. Dr. Hirani stated that our primary focus should be to invest in building the local talent pool so that India is ready to handle the influx of S&T and Manufacturing demand in the most capable manner. “This will also help in sustaining the local communities as well as create Socio-Economic solutions for region specific problems. India can achieve new heights through carefully developed Design Thinking which emphasizes building strong fundamentals for a regionally diverse nation like ours”, he said.


    The Plasma Arc Medical Waste Disposal System can substantially help in the disposal of the large quantities of disposable masks which are creating a lot of trouble for the Civic Waste Management Authorities. The technology of Intelli MAST, Hospital Care Assistive Robotic Device, Touchless Soap cum Water Dispenser, Battery Operated Disinfectant Sprayers & Mechanized Ventilator with Oxygen Concentrator were exhibited and these can help the MSME sector to sustain itself. Already the Anti-COVID 19 technologies have been transferred to 13 MSEs.


    Dr. Hirani stated that most important reason for flooding in urban areas is choked Drainage Systems. The CSIR-CMERI developed Mechanized Drainage Cleaning system can solve this perennial problem through innovative technological solutions. The CSIR-CMERI complete Water Purification Technologies can help in easing the Water Contamination related woes of Bihar through cost-effective and energy efficient water purification solutions. The High Flow Rate Iron, Arsenic and Fluoride removal technology can help in effective purification and management of Water Resources in both Urban and Rural scenarios. The CSIR-CMERI developed Water Purification technologies have already been transferred to 47 MSEs., which showcase their tremendous popularity and acceptability. The Space Rationalized Solar technologies and the Smart Lighting systems can revolutionize energy efficient power resource management.


    ShriVishwa Mohan Jha and representatives of Bihar Industry Association, Bhojpur Chamber of Commerce and other eminent attendees expressed their appreciation to Dr. Hirani for the pioneering and inclusive efforts of CSIR-CMERI even during this global health pandemic of epic proportions .


    Shri Jha also expressed his keenness to continue working together for the development of the nation through the intervention of technologies of CSIR-CMERI.


    *****


    NB/KGS/(CSIR-CMERI Release)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1644368) Visitor Counter : 685
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu