      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2020 7:22PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    India's COVID-19 recoveries cross the historic peak of 1.5 million; Case Fatality Rate touches a new low of 2%


    India's COVID-19 recoveries have crossed the historic peak of 1.5 million today. Recovery of 15,35,743 patients has been made possible because of the policy of TESTING aggressively, TRACKING comprehensively & TREATING efficiently. Better ambulance services, focus on Standard of Care and use of non-invasive oxygen have given the desired results.With the highest ever single day recoveries of 54,859 in the last 24 hours, the Recovery Rate amongst the COVID-19 patients has scaled another high of almost 70%.The record high recoveries have ensured that the actual caseload of the country viz. the active cases has reduced and currently comprises only 28.66% of the total positive cases. India has posted more than 9 lakh recoveries than the active cases (6,34,945).The coordinated efforts of Centre and State/UT governments on early detection through aggressive testing and efficient clinical management of hospitalized cases have shown results with continuously regressing Case Fatality Rate. It is 2%, as on date, and steadily declining. Early identification of cases has also led to steeply falling percentage active cases.


    For details :


    Prime Minister launches submarine cable connectivity to Andaman & Nicobar Islands


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today launched and dedicated to the nation, the submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) connecting Andaman & Nicobar Islands to the mainland through video conferencing. Shri Narendra Modi said the connectivity would now enable endless opportunities in the islands. He said the laying of the 2300 Kms submarine cable and completing it before the set target is very praise worthy.The Prime Minister said that the service has begun today on a major chunk of the islands from Chennai to Port Blair, Port Blair to Little Andaman and Port Blair to Swaraj Island. The Prime Minister admired the laying of cables for about 2300 kilometers under the sea as surveying in the deep sea, maintaining the quality of the cable and laying of the cable with specialised vessels is not an easy task. The Prime Minister said the Submarine Cable will help A&N in getting cheaper & better connectivity and all the benefits of Digital India, especially in improving online education, tele-medicine, banking system, online trading and in boosting tourism.


    For details :


    Text of PM’s address at the inauguration of Submarine Cable Connectivity to Andaman & Nicobar Islands


    For details :


    PM holds meeting with CMs of six States to review the flood situation


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra held a meeting today through video conference with Chief Ministers of six States, namely Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala,to review their preparedness to deal with south-west monsoon and current flood situation in the country. Prime Minister emphasized on better coordination between all central and state agencies to have a permanent system for forecasting of floods and extensive use of innovative technologies for improving forecast and warning system.Prime Minister said there are pilot efforts underway to use innovative technologies such as artificial intelligence to improve locations specific forecast, for which States should provide necessary information to these agencies and timely disseminate the warnings to local communities.Prime Minister also emphasized that in view of COVID situation, while undertaking rescue efforts, States must ensure that people follow all health precautions such as wearing of face mask, hand sanitization and maintain adequate physical distance and relief materials must include provision for hand washing/ sanitizing and face masks for the affected people. In this regard, special provisions should be made for elderly people, pregnant women and people with co-morbidity.


    For details:


    EPFO ensures hassle free service delivery through UMANG during COVID-19 pandemic


    The Unified Mobile Application for New-age Governance (UMANG) has been a big hit among Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) subscribers, enabling them to utilize services during COVID-19 pandemic from the comfort of their homes in hassle free manner. Presently a PF member can access 16 different services of EPFO on their mobile phone using UMANG App. On UMANG app, a member can raise claim, track claim and know the status of claim raised. During the COVID-19 pandemic period from April to July 2020, a total of 11.27 lakhs claims were filed online through UMANG App. UMANG has enabled members overcome the mobility restriction induced by COVID-19 pandemic in accessing EPFO’s services and thereby reduced the need to physically visit the offices of EPFO. During the COVID-19 pandemic period from April to July 2020, 18.52 lakhs API hits were received on View Pensioner Passbook service while 29,773 API hits were recorded on updating Jeevan Pramaan Patra service.


    For details:


    Government to provide mobile connectivity in 498 villages which are located in strategic and border areas- Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad


    Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Minister of Electronics &IT, Communications and Law & Justice, said that Government of India has been taking measures on priority to provide connectivity in the far flung, difficult, border areas of strategic importance, so as to ensure better quality of life to the people as well as to those who are working in these areas. The minister informed that a tender for 354 uncovered villages in the strategic, remote and border areas of the country has been finalised and is under implementation in the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, in 144 villages of the States of Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttrakhand, Himachal Pradesh and other priority areas of Gujarat . He said these villages have been strategically chosen to cover border area connectivity on mobile. Shri Prasad informed that after commissioning of these villages, there will be no uncovered villages in UTs of J&K, Ladakh for mobile connectivity.


    For details:


    Recent Steps Taken by Government to Give Relief to MSMEs will Accelerate the Wheel of Economy: Shri Nitin Gadkari


    Shri Nitin Gadkari Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises said that the changing the definition of MSMEs, Scheme of Fund of Funds, Champions portal, extended credits to MSMEs will certainly accelerate the wheels of economy which had slowed down due to lockdown in the wake of Pandemic. He said this while addressing a Virtual MSME Conclave organized today. He appealed to all the stakeholders to do away with all kinds of fear and negativity and assured that government is doing everything possible to make the country a super economic power. Shri Gadkari further informed that loans of about Rs. 1,20,000 crore have been disbursed to MSMEs out of Rs. 3 lakh crore announced in the relief package. Discussing about the problem of delayed payments, he said that instructions have been given to all Ministries, Departments and PSUs to clear pending bills of MSMEs within 45 days.


    For details:


    Defence Minister to release a book chronicling the Vice President’s third year in office; Shri Prakash Javadekar to release e-version of the book


    A book chronicling the third year in office of the Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu titled ‘Connecting, Communicating, Changing’ will be released by the Union Minister of Defence, Shri Rajnath Singh at Upa-RashtrapatiNivas in Delhi tomorrow. Shri Naidu completes three years in office on August 11.The electronic version of the book (e-book) will be launched by the Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Shri Prakash Javadekar. The book which runs into more than 250 pages has been brought out by the Publications Division of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.


    For details:


    Finance Minister launches an Online Dashboard for the National Infrastructure Pipeline


    Union Minister for Finance & Corporate Affairs Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman inaugurated the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) Online Dashboard here today through video conferencing. The online dashboard is envisaged as a one stop solution for all stakeholders looking for information on infrastructure projects in New India. The dashboard is being hosted on the India Investment Grid (IIG) ( www.indiainvestmentgrid.gov.in ). IIG is an interactive and dynamic online platform that showcases updated & real-time investment opportunities in the country


    For details:


    Indian products deserve fair access to other countries on reciprocal basis


    Shri Piyush Goyal, Ministry of Commerce & Industry today inaugurated first edition of five day long virtual FMCG Supply Chain EXPO, 2020. Speaking on the occasion, Shri Goyal said that we have to accept the post COVID-19 pandemic reality. World has changed. World will learn and unlearn out of this Covid experience. Shri Goyal said that we want to protect our industries so that they can get a fair play and access. He said that I ndia wants equal, fair and reciprocal trade with the world. We are moving towards balanced trade with many countries and regions. This is one the reasons why India chose not to join RCEP as it was completely inequitable arrangement Countries should, in a phased manner, look at sourcing from India, developing their products in India & then encash the large business opportunity that 1.3 billion Indian people offer. Shri Goyal invited Indian industry to walk together, support each other and work towards a prosperous India in the long run and better future for the generations to come.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM FIELD OFFICES


          + Punjab: On the directives of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the Medical Education & Research Department has set up four new Covid viral testing labs to enhance the total daily testing capacity to 4000 tests during September 2020 with 1000 tests per day per lab in the state. Apart from this, the total viral testing capacity in three Medical Colleges at Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot would also be ramped up to 5000 tests per day per college by August 31.


      * Maharashtra: Worst hit Maharashtra on Sunday reported 390 deaths, its highest so far in five months of the pandemic, while for the second day in a row, the state added over 12,000 Covid-19 cases. The cumulative death toll of the state stood at 17,757. With the addition of 12,248 cases, the overall Covid-19 tally has jumped to 5.15 lakh cases. In a silver lining though, the state reported more discharges than daily additions- a record 13,348 people were discharged on Sunday, taking total discharges to 3,51,710


      * Gujarat: Even as Covid 19 cases in Ahmedabad are stabilizing, the number of patients requiring ICU care and ventilator support is on the rise. 60% of ICU beds and 70.6% of ICU beds with ventilators are occupied in the city. Meanwhile, the Gujarat government has increased the fine for not wearing face mask in public places in the state to Rs 1,000 from Rs 500 announced earlier.


      * Rajasthan: The state reported 598 new cases till 10:30 am on Monday, pushing the state's COVID19 tally to 53,095. According to the Rajasthan health department's bulletin, six deaths were reported on Monday, taking the death toll to 795.


      * Madhya Pradesh: The state needs more High-dependency unit (HDU) and Intensive care unit (ICU) beds and ones with oxygen as Covid-19 cases have increased in the state alarmingly during the unlock period in the past seven weeks. MP has 9,009 active cases as on date. In view of the Corona pandemic, the ensuing festivals like Ganesh Utsav, Moharram and Janmashtmi will not be celebrated publicly in the state. Independence Day will also be celebrated on a limited scale.


      * Goa: The state recorded highest ever single day spike of 506 cases on Sunday. As Goa’s lone Covid 19 hospital packed to capacity at the backdrop of spike in cases, the government has designated sub-district hospital in Ponda as state’s second full fledged Covid hospital.


      * Arunachal Pradesh: In Arunachal Pradesh, 52 people recovered from Covid-19 during last twenty four hours while 38 new cases detected on Sunday. Currently 670 active cases in the state. Out of 38 new cases, 11 cases detected from East Kameng district.


      * Manipur: In Manipur, there are currently 996 persons in official quarantine, 1580 in community quarantine and 419 are taking paid quarantine facilities.


      * Nagaland: In Nagaland, out of the 2,781 total positive cases, 1,226 cases are from Armed Forces, 1,072 cases are from returnees, 196 cases are from Frontline Workers, 233 cases of traced contacts and 54 cases are others.


      * Mizoram: 12 fresh Covid-19 cases detected in Mizoram yesterday. Total Covid-19 cases in state reached 620 out of them 322 are active cases.


      * Sikkim: In Sikkim, 44 new COVID-19 cases detected today. Total 510 COVID-19 patients were cured and discharged till date. And the number of active cases in state is 399.


      * Kerala: State government has requested the Centre to provide a special economic package for the state to overcome the damages caused in the rains. CM Pinarayi Vijayan made the request during a meeting convened by the PM with the CMs of the flood-hit states to review the situation. The death toll in Munnar landslide has climbed to 49 with recovery of more bodies from the debris. In Wayanad, 25 more tested positive for Covid-19 today. Two Covid deaths were reported today. A total of 1,211 cases were reported in Kerala yesterday. As many as 12,347 patients are still under treatment and 1,49,357 people under observation across the state.


      * Tamil Nadu: As many as 245 fresh cases and two deaths were reported in Puducherry UT, taking the total cases to 5624, active cases to 2180, and deaths to 89 in Puducherry UT on Monday. Over 10% Tamil Nadu MLAs have contracted Covid-19; with the Assembly election due in about eight months, MLAs balance precautions with constituency work. Class 10 results declared in Tamil Nadu, all students have passed; results were prepared based on based on internal assessments from schools as well as attendance. 5994 new cases, 6020 recoveries & 119 deaths were reported on Sunday. Total cases: 2,96,901; Active cases: 53,336; Deaths: 4927.


      * Karnataka: CM and other senior ministers participated in the discussion with PM Narendra Modi on flood situation; State government requested Rs 4000 crore financial assistance from the central government. Primary Education Minister today announced SSLC results and totally 71.80% students passed in the exams recently amidst covid crisis. According to Karnataka road safety authority road accidents and fatalities dropped by 48% during covid lockdown. Covid positive cases in the Bengaluru city came down 2000 mark on Sunday. 5985 new cases, 4670 discharges & 107 deaths reported yesterday in the State; Total cases : 1,780,87; Active cases: 80,973; Total Deaths: 3198.


      * Andhra Pradesh: District Collectors across State seek reports on fire safety in Covid-19 care centres to avert mishaps, following the fire accident at a Covid care centre in Vijayawada that claimed 10 lives. State has approved the recruitment of staff to 30,887 posts for providing medical services in Covid-19 care hospitals. As a measure to curb the spread of coronavirus, the Guntur district authorities have imposed complete lockdown in Macherla town for three days beginning today. Guntur district recorded 881 more Covid cases on Sunday, taking the total to 21,718. 10,820 new cases, 9097 discharges and 97 deaths were reported yesterday in AP. Total cases: 2,27,860 ; Active cases: 87,112; Deaths: 2036.


      * Telangana: Covid-19 numbers drop in Telangana Capital Region, but spike in districts. 1256 new cases, 1587 recoveries & 10 deaths reported in the last 24 hours in the State ; out of 1256 cases, 389 cases reported from GHMC. Total cases: 80,751; Active cases: 22,528; Deaths: 637; Discharges :57,586.


    FACT CHECK


  + *****


    YB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1644874) Visitor Counter : 654
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Malayalam , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu
    
    
    

+