      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Agriculture is the foundation of the Indian economy and Modi government has been striving to strengthen it for the last six years
      
      “Many unprecedented steps have been taken to double the income of farmers and for the development of the agriculture sector. I am confident that due to the untiring efforts of PM Narendra Modi, Indian agriculture will become world class in the times to come ”
      
      "Agriculture Infrastructure Fund" will accelerate the creation of many infrastructure projects such as cold storage, collection centers, processing units so that our hardworking farmers can get the true value for their produce
      
      "Agriculture Infrastructure Fund" will generate new employment opportunities and also strengthen the rural economy.
      
      Union Home Minister expressed his gratitude to PM Modi for launching the ₹1,00,000 Cr ‘Agriculture Infrastructure Fund’ and transferring ₹17,000 Cr in the accounts of 8.5 Cr farmers under ‘PM-Kisan’ for the development of agriculture sector & rural areas
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2020 3:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for launching the ₹1,00,000 Cr ‘Agriculture Infrastructure Fund’ approved by the cabinet and for transferring ₹17,000 Cr to the accounts of 8.5 Cr farmers under ‘PM-Kisan’ for the development of agriculture sector & rural areas.


    Shri Amit Shah in a series of tweets, said that “Agriculture Infrastructure Fund will accelerate the creation of many infrastructure projects such as cold storage, collection centers, processing units so that our hardworking farmers can get the true value for their produce. This will generate new employment opportunities and will also strengthen the rural economy”.


    Union Home Minister further added that “agriculture is the foundation of the Indian economy and the Modi government has been striving to strengthen it for the last six years”. Shri Amit Shah emphasized that “many unprecedented steps have been taken for doubling the income of farmers and for the development of the agriculture sector”. The Union Home Minister added “I am confident that due to the untiring efforts of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji, Indian agriculture will become world class in the times to come” .


    कृषि भारतीय अर्थव्यवस्था की नींव है, जिसको सशक्त करने के लिए मोदी सरकार 6वर्षों से प्रयासरत है। किसानों की आय दोगुना करने और कृषि विकास के लिए कई अभूतपूर्व कदम उठाए हैं। मुझे विश्वास है कि पीएम @narendramodi जी के इन अथक प्रयासों से आने वाले समय में भारतीय कृषि विश्वस्तरीय होगी।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 9, 2020

    कृषि व ग्रामीण क्षेत्र के विकास के लिए आज @NarendraModi जी ने कैबिनेट द्वारा पारित ₹100000 Cr के Agriculture Infrastructure Fund की शुरुआत की और साथ ही PM-Kisan के तहत 8.5 Cr किसानों के खातों में ₹17000 Cr की राशि ट्रांसफ़र की, इसके लिए प्रधानमंत्री जी का आभार व्यक्त करता हूँ।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 9, 2020

    Agriculture Infrastructure Fund से कोल्ड स्टोरेज, संग्रह केंद्रों, प्रसंस्करण इकाइयों जैसे अनेकों बुनियादी ढाचों के निर्माण को गति मिलेगी जिससे हमारे मेहनती किसान अपनी उपज का सही मूल्य प्राप्त कर पाएंगे। इससे रोजगार के नये अवसर उत्पन्न होंगे और ग्रामीण अर्थव्यवस्था भी मजबूत होगी।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 9, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/DDD/AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1644567) Visitor Counter : 1137
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu