      Ministry of Home Affairs

      “Momentous day for the people of Andaman & Nicobar Islands,” says Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah as Prime Minister inaugurated the 2300 KM long Submarine OFC connecting Port Blair, Little Andaman and Swaraj Island
      
      Shri Amit Shah said this mammoth project had enormous challenges but completed well before its timeline
      
      “This landmark project will usher a new era of development for the Andaman & Nicobar islands”: Union Home Minister
      
      Shri Amit Shah says this Submarine OFC will provide high-speed telecom and broadband facilities in Andaman & Nicobar at par with metro cities
      
      “Modi Government is resolved towards its mission of Digital India and empowering its citizens with the best of modern facilities”: Union Home Minister
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2020 6:11PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah has termed it “a ‪momentous day” for the people of Andaman & Nicobar Islands as the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi inaugurated the 2300 KM long Submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC), connecting Port Blair, Little Andaman and Swaraj Island.


    “This mammoth project had enormous challenges but completed well before its timeline,” said Shri Amit Shah, in a series of tweets.


    Thanking the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi and the Union Minister for Communications, Electronics & IT and Law & Justice, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Shri Amit Shah said, “this landmark project will usher a new era of development for the Andaman & Nicobar islands.”


    Stating that the submarine OFC will provide high-speed telecom and broadband facilities in Andaman & Nicobar at par with metro cities, the Union Home Minister said, “this will lead to great benefits like e-education, banking facilities, telemedicine and surge employment by providing a major boost to the tourism sector.”


    The Union Home Minister said, “Modi Government is resolved towards its mission of Digital India and empowering its citizens with the best of modern facilities.”


    A momentous day for the people of Andaman & Nicobar Islands as PM @narendramodi inaugurated the 2300KM long Submarine Optical Fibre Cable, connecting Port Blair, Little Andaman and Swaraj Island. This mammoth project had enormous challenges but completed well before its timeline.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 10, 2020

    The submarine OFC will provide high-speed telecom and broadband facilities in Andaman & Nicobar at par with metro cities. This will lead to great benefits like e-education, banking facilities, tele-medicine and surge employment by providing a major boost to the tourism sector.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 10, 2020

    Modi govt is resolved towards its mission of Digital India and empowering its citizens with the best of modern facilities.
    I thank PM Shri @narendramodi ji and Shri @rsprasad ji for this landmark project which will usher a new era of development for the Andaman & Nicobar islands.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 10, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/AD/SS/DDD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1644847) Visitor Counter : 584
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Marathi , Manipuri , Urdu , Hindi , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil