      Ministry of Earth Science

      Scattered heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls very likely to continue over Kerala & Mahe during next 24 hrs and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls likely during subsequent 24 hours
      
      Isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over Coastal & South Interior Karnataka and Tamilnadu during next 2-3 days. Isolated extremely heavy falls also likely over South Interior & Coastal Karnataka and ghat sections of Tamilnadu during next 24 hours
      
      Rainfall activity over northwest India likely to increase from 9th August onwards with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places very likely over Western Himalayan region and adjoining plains during 9th to 11th August 2020

      Posted On: 08 AUG 2020 3:34PM by PIB Delhi

    According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre/Regional Meteorological Centre, New Delhi of the India Meteorological Department (IMD):


    Significant Weather Features Dated 08-08-2020


    ♦️ The Well-marked low pressure area moved westwards and now lies over Northwest & adjoining Northeast Arabian Sea and neighbourhood causing reduction in rainfall activity over Gujarat state.


    ♦️ Monsoon trough is near to its normal position and continues to be active.


    ♦️ Strong southwesterly/westerly monsoon flow prevailing over the Arabian Sea and along & off west coast at lower tropospheric levels likely to continue for next 2 days.


    Under its influence:

     1. Scattered heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls very likely to continue over Kerala & Mahe during next 24 hrs and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls likely during subsequent 24 hours.
     2. Isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over Coastal & South Interior Karnataka and Tamilnadu during next 2-3 days. Isolated extremely heavy falls also likely over South Interior & Coastal Karnataka and ghat sections of Tamilnadu during next 24 hours.

    ♦️ Rainfall activity over northwest India likely to increase from 9th August onwards with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places very likely over Western Himalayan region and adjoining plains during 9th to 11th August 2020.


    ♦️ A low pressure area is likely to form over North & adjoining West-central Bay of Bengal by tomorrow, the 9th August, 2020.


    Under its influence, rainfall activity likely to increase over east & adjoining parts of central India with heavy to very heavy rainfall over Odisha during 9th to 11th and over Vidarbha & Chhattisgarh during 10th to 12th. Isolated extremely heavy falls also likely over Odisha on 10th August 2020.


    FORECAST:


    ***


    NB/KGS/(IMD Release)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1644381) Visitor Counter : 497
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Manipuri , Tamil
    
    
    

2.