      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Narendra Singh Tomar and Shri Piyush Goyal along with other dignitaries flagged off first “Kisan Rail”, a special Parcel Train from Devlali (Maharashtra) to Danapur (Bihar)
      
      “Kisan Rail will be game changer in ensuring a fast transportation of agriculture produce across the nation.” -Shri Narendra Singh Tomar
      
      “Indian Railways and Indian Farmers had been at the forefront in battle against Covid challenges. Foodgrains freight was doubled during the Covid pandemic. Kisan Rail is a step towards making Farmers more prosperous.” -Shri Piyush Goyal
      
      "Eagerly looking forward to see the day when apples of Kashmir reach Kanyakumari through Kisan Rail" -Shri Piyush Goyal.
      
      The train will provide seamless supply chain of Perishable produce, will be a great help to the farmers, as freight of this train will be charged as per parcel tariff of normal train at ‘P’ Scale
      
      Posted On: 07 AUG 2020 3:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Railways introduced first “Kisan Rail” from Devlali to Danapur today on 07/08/2020 from Devlali. The train was flagged off via video conferencing by Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Rural Development and Panchyati Raj, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar and Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal.


    The event was attended by Minister of State of Railways, Shri Suresh C. Angadi, Minister of State of Panchayati Raj, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri Parshottam Rupala, Minister of State of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri Kailash Chaudhary, Minister of State of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri Raosaheb Patil Danve, Leader of Opposition, Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, Shri Devendra Fadnavis, Minister of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection, Government of Maharashtra, Shri Chhagan Bhujbal, and other dignitaries.


    The train will run on weekly basis with initial composition of 10 +1 VPs. The train will reach Danapur at 18:45 hrs. tomorrow covering the journey of 1519 kms. in 31:45 hrs.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar said, “It is a great day for farmers. Kisan Rail was announced in the budget. Agriculture produce needs best possible distribution and returns. Indian farmers have proved that they would never be deterred by any calamity or challenge. Kisan Rail will ensure that agro products reach from one corner to another corner of the country. This train will also benefit the farmers and the consumers.”


    Kisan Rail will be game changer in ensuring a fast transportation of agriculture produce across the nation. Shri Tomar praised Indian Railways for maintenance of foodgrains supply chain during Covid times.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Piyush Goyal said, “Indian Railways has put trains in service of Farmers. It was the guidance and inspiration by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi ji that Indian Railways have started Kisan Rail. This train will serve as a milestone in doubling Farmers’ income. Indian Railways and Farmers had been forefront in battle against Covid challenges. Foodgrains freight was doubled during the period. Interest of Indian Farmers is being looked after like never before. I am looking forward to see the day when apples of Kashmir reach Kanyakumari through Kisan Rail.”


    Over Central Railway, Bhusawal Division is primarily an Agro based division. Nasik and surrounding region produces huge quantity of fresh vegetables, fruits, flowers, other perishables, onions and other agro products. These perishables are mainly transported to areas around Patna, Prayagraj, Katni, Satna etc.


    This train has been provided scheduled halts at Nasik Road, Manmad, Jalgaon, Bhusaval, Burhanpur, Khandwa, Itarsi, Jabalpur, Satna, Katni, Manikpur, Prayagraj Chheoki, Pt. Deendayal Upadhyay Nagar and Buxar.


    The chargeable rates for major pair of stations are as under:


    Freight per Tonne :

                                       
Nasik Road/Devlali to Danapur  Rs. 4001
                                       
                                       
                                       
Manmad to Danapur              Rs. 3849
                                       
                                       
                                       
Jalgaon to Danapur             Rs. 3513
                                       
                                       
                                       
Bhusawal to Danapur            Rs. 3459
                                       
                                       
                                       
Burhanpur to Danapur           Rs. 3323
                                       
                                       
                                       
Khandwa to Danapur             Rs. 3148
                                       
                                       

    Indian Railways aims to help double farmers’ income with the launch of Kisan Rail. This train will help in bringing perishable agricultural products like vegetables, fruits to the market in a short period of time. The train with frozen containers is expected to build a seamless national cold supply chain for perishables, inclusive of fish, meat and milk.


    Indian Railways have earlier run single commodity special trains like Banana Specials etc. But this will be the first ever multi commodity trains and will carry fruits like Pomegranate, Banana, Grapes etc and vegetables like Capsicum, Cauliflower, Drumsticks, Cabbage, Onion,Chillies etc. Aggressive marketing is being done with local farmers, loaders, APMC and individuals. Demand is being aggregated. It is expected that the train will be patronised well and will be a great help to the farmers, as freight of this train will be charged as per parcel tariff of normal train (P Scale).


    ***


    DJN/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1644077) Visitor Counter : 979
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu