      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah said ‘Launch of ‘Transparent Taxation - Honoring the Honest’ platform is an important step for New India
      
      “Modi govt has taken several landmark decisions to empower and honor the honest taxpayers who are the backbone of India’s progress and development”
      
      “‘Transparent Taxation Platform’” is another step toward PM Modi’s resolve of ‘Minimum Government, Maximum Governance’
      
      “Launch of ‘Transparent Taxation - Honoring the Honest’ is a gift to our taxpayers by PM Narendra Modi and FM Nirmala Sitharaman”
      
      “Reforms like faceless assessment, faceless appeal & taxpayers charter will further strengthen our taxation system.”
      Posted On: 13 AUG 2020 4:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah said “Launch of ‘Transparent Taxation - Honoring the Honest’ platform is an important step for New India”. Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah through his tweets said “Launch of ‘Transparent Taxation - Honoring the Honest’ is a gift to our taxpayers by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman”. Shri Amit Shah mentioned that “ With reforms like faceless assessment, faceless appeal and taxpayers charter, this platform will further strengthen our taxation system”.


    Union Home Minister also added that “Modi government has taken several landmark decisions to empower and honor the honest taxpayers who are the backbone of India’s progress and development. This platform is another step toward Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji's resolve of 'Minimum Government, Maximum Governance”.


    Reforms for a New India!

    
    Launch of ‘Transparent Taxation-Honoring the Honest’ is a gift to our taxpayers by PM @narendramodi & FM @nsitharaman.
    
    With reforms like faceless assessment, faceless appeal & taxpayers charter this platform will further strengthen our taxation system.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 13, 2020

    Modi govt has taken several landmark decisions to empower and honor the honest taxpayers who are the backbone of India’s progress & development.
    
    This platform is another step towards PM @narendramodi ji's resolve of 'Minimum Government, Maximum Governance'. #HonoringTheHonest

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 13, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/AD/SS/DDD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1645499) Visitor Counter : 385
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil , Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Malayalam