      Ministry of Earth Science

      Heavy to very rainfall with extremely heavy falls very likely at isolated places over Gujarat region; Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, East Rajasthan, West Madhya Pradesh, Saurashtra & Kutch, ghat area of Madhya Maharashtra, Konkan & Goa, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana
      
      Heavy rainfall at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, East Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam & Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram & Tripura and Coastal Karnataka
      
      DELHI HEAVY RAINFALL WARNING (Mid Day)

      Posted On: 13 AUG 2020 1:41PM by PIB Delhi
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Forecast based upon  0830 IST / 0300 UTC OF 13-08-2020                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Forecast             Generally cloudy sky. Moderate Rain/Thundershowers.                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Impact Expected      Disruption of traffic flow due to some roads being flooded or closed. Water logging in low lying areas, streets and roads in the city.                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Activity Suggested   Check for traffic congestion on your route before leaving for your destination. Follow any traffic advisories that are issued in this regard. Avoid going to areas that face water logging
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                     problem often.                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               

    The realized rainfall (in mm) till 0830 IST is:- Safdarjung- 12.0, Palam- 04.2,Lodhi road-06.6, Ridge-11.4, Ayanagar-05.8


    All India Weather Warning:


    ♦ A north-south trough runs from Bihar to Westcentral Bay of Bengal in lower tropospheric levels. A cyclonic circulation lies in the mid tropospheric levels over Northwest & adjoining Westcentral Bay of Bengal off Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts.
    ♦ Under the influence of the above two systems, a low pressure area is likely to form over Northwest Bay of Bengal & neighbourhood by today,the 13 th August. It is likely to persist over the region and become more organized over North Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 2-3 days.
    ♦ Western part of the monsoon trough has shifted to the north of its normal position and it is likely to remain there during next 48 hours. Eastern part of it is in its near normal position.
    ♦ Under the above scenario:


    
    (i) Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places very likely over major parts of northwest India (Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttar Pradesh) during next 2-3 days.


    
    (ii) Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places very likely over Gujarat state, East Rajasthan and parts of central India during next 48 hours. Isolated extremely heavy falls also likely over Gujarat state & East Rajasthan and isolated heavy to very heavy falls over northern parts of Konkan & Goa during next 72 hours.


    
    ♦ Moderate to Severe thunderstorm accompanied with lightning very likely at isolated places over East Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh during next 24 hours.


    15 August (Day 3): Heavy to very rainfall at a few places with extremely heavy falls at isolated places likely over Saurashtra & Kutch; Heavy to very rainfall with extremely heavy falls at isolated places over East Rajasthan and Gujarat region; Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal and Konkan & Goa and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, West Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, ghat area of Madhya Maharashtra, Assam & Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram & Tripura, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.


    -- Strong Wind (speed reaching 50-60 kmph) likely over Southwest & West Central Arabian Sea; (speed reaching 45-55 kmph) along & off Gujarat-Maharashtra-Goa coasts and along & off Odisha-West Bengal coasts and (speed reaching 40-50 kmph) over Northeast and Eastcentral Arabian sea. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas.


    16 August (Day 4): Heavy to very rainfall with extremely heavy falls at isolated places likely over Saurashtra & Kutch; Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Gujarat region, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Konkan & Goa and heavy rainfall at isolated places over East Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, East Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Bihar, Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, ghat area of Madhya Maharashtra, Marathawada, Assam & Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram & Tripura, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Coastal & South Interior Karnataka.


    -- Strong Wind (speed reaching 50-60 kmph) very likely over Southwest & West Central Arabian Sea and (speed reaching 45-55 kmph) along & off Gujarat-Maharashtra-Goa coasts. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas.


    17 August (Day 5): Heavy to very rainfall with extremely heavy falls at isolated places likely over Saurashtra & Kutch; Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Gujarat region, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Konkan & Goa and heavy rainfall at isolated places over East Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, East Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Bihar, Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, ghat area of Madhya Maharashtra, Marathawada, Assam & Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram & Tripura, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Coastal & South Interior Karnataka.


    -- Strong Wind (speed reaching 50-60 kmph) very likely over Southwest & West Central Arabian Sea and (speed reaching 45-55 kmph) along & off Gujarat-Maharashtra-Goa coasts. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas.


    Kindly visit www.rsmcnewdelhi.imd.gov.in and www.mausam.imd.gov.in for updates on the system .


    *****


    NB/KGS/(IMD releases)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1645471) Visitor Counter : 298
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Tamil