      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 11 AUG 2020 6:28PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Press Information Bureau


    Ministry of Information and Broadcasting


    Government of India


    With nearly 16 lakh Recoveries, India’s Recovery rate nearly 70%; Case Fatality Rate falls below 2%


    There has been a sharp hike in the recovery rate, which is pegged at nearly 70% today.With more patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases), the total recoveries have jumped to 15,83,489 with 47,746 COVID-19 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours.The actual case load of the country is the active cases (6,39,929) which is only 28.21% of the total positive cases. They are under active medical supervision.With a consistent and sustained increase in recoveries, the gap between recovered patients and active COVID-19 cases has reached nearly 9.5 lakh. The gap between percentage Recoveries and percentage Active Cases is growing every day. Focus on improved and effective clinical treatment in hospitals, use of non-invasive, improved and coordinated services of the ambulances for ferrying patients for prompt and timely treatment have resulted in seamless efficient patient management of COVID-19 patients. As a result, the Case Fatality Rate has been low when compared to the global average. It has fallen below 2% today, currently standing at 1.99%.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1645009


    PM interacts with CMs to discuss the current situation and plan ahead for tackling the pandemic


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today interacted with Chief Ministers and representatives of ten states including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana, and Uttar Pradesh via video conferencing to discuss the current situation and plan ahead for tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. Karnataka was represented by the Deputy Chief Minister. Prime Minister said that everyone has shown a great degree of cooperation and the teamwork displayed by Team India has been remarkable. He talked about the challenges and pressure faced by hospitals and health care workers. He mentioned that almost 80% of active cases are from the participating 10 states,and if the virus is defeated in these ten states, the entire country will emerge victorious in the battle against COVID-19. Prime Minister noted thatthe number of daily tests has reached almost 7 lakh and is increasing continuously, which has helped in early identification and containment. The average fatality rate in the country is amongst the lowest in the country and is continuously going down. The percentage of active cases is reducing, while the recovery rate is increasing, he said. He noted that these steps have boosted the confidence of people, and said that the target of bringing down the fatality rate below 1% can be achieved soon. Prime Minister underlined that what has emerged from the discussion is an urgent need to ramp up testing in Bihar, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Telangana. He said that containment, contact tracing and surveillance are the most effective weapons in this battle.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1645011


    Text of PM's interaction with CMs to discuss the current situation and plan ahead for tackling the pandemic


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1645041


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan digitally interacted with Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh on State specific Health concerns


    Sh. Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh digitally called upon Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare to seek his inputs in improving Madhya Pradesh in the field of health and medicine, yesterday. Officials of the Madhya Pradesh government digitally presented a roadmap in improving the health sector to make Madhya Pradesh ‘Atmanirbhar’ by the year 2023. Dr. Harsh Vardhan gave his valuable suggestions on them. Sh. Chouhan gave his assurances that all his suggestions would be fully implemented. At the outset, Dr. Harsh Vardhan congratulated Sh. Chouhan for “managing the COVID-19 scenario in Madhya Pradesh in spite of taking oath during the pandemic” and also for “his personal recovery from the disease.” Dr Harsh Vardhan advised them to adopt the eSanjeevanitele-medicine platform which would highly help the authorities manage the health of the population which is highly dispersed.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1644887


    Regular passenger and suburban train services will continue to remain suspended till further notice


    As decided and informed earlier on as well, regular passenger and suburban train services will continue to remain suspended till further notice. It may be noted that 230 Special Trains, which are running at present, will continue to operate. Local trains in Mumbai, which are presently being run on limited basis only on the requisition of state government, will also continue to run.The occupancy of special trains is being monitored on regular basis. Additional special trains may be run based on the requirement. However, all other regular trains and suburban trains, run before lockdown, will remain suspended for the time being.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1645088


    Union Minister Shri PrakashJavadekar releases e-book ‘Connecting, Communicating, Changing’ the Vice President of India’s three years in office


    Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Shri PrakashJavadekar today unveiled e-version of the book ‘Connecting, Communicating, Changing’ the Vice President of India’s three years in office. The e-book was launched along with its print coffee table version which was released by Union Minister of Defence Shri Rajnath Singh. Releasing the e-book, Shri Javadekar said the book was about Connecting with people via Communication and for Changing India and this 3 rd edition of the book was a treasure trove for students who want to follow the speeches of the Vice President. On the occasion, Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh said oratory is an art and the Vice President speaks from his heart and his speeches are a reflection of his thoughts and emotions. He added that a good book is the greatest gift a generation can give to another and readers will keep revisiting this book.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1645007


    Raksha Mantri launches modernization/ up-gradation of facilities and new infrastructure creation of Defence PSUs and OFB


    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh launched the initiatives of a number of modernisation and up-gradation of facilities as also new infrastructure creation by Defence PSUs and OFB, through digital link yesterday, as part of the AtmaNirbhar Week celebration of the Ministry of Defence. Shri Rajnath Singh said Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi gave a clarion call for AtmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan and his 5-I formula of ‘Intent, Inclusion, Investment, Infrastructure and Innovation’ will put the economy on high growth trajectory. He said our government has made timely and thoughtful interventions during Covid-19 times like issuing negative list for import, increase in FDI limits, separate budget for domestic capital procurement and emphasis on indigenization.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1644892


    PFC signs agreement to construct Modular Operation Theatres at District Hospital in Siddharthnagar, Uttar Pradesh


    Power Finance Corporation Ltd (PFC), India's leading NBFC, today signed a MoA with District Administration of Siddharthnagar in Uttar Pradesh for construction of two Modular Operation Theatre Rooms in the District Hospital. Under the MoA, PFC will provide financial assistance of close to Rupees Ninety Four Lakhs for execution of the Project to the District Administration under its CSR initiative.The pact is intended to provide necessary support to the Siddharthnagar District Administration to develop the necessary infrastructure in order to reduce Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) in the catchment area.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1644827


    DST Secretary highlights digital transformation opportunities that emerged from COVID 19 disruptions


    Secretary, Department of Science and Technology, Professor Ashutosh Sharma has emphasised that the future is all about convergence of digital technologies and that COVID 19 virus has provided the country opportunity to be part of the change rather than resisting it. Professor Sharmawas speaking at webinar on Digital Transformation in COVID-19 “Use of digital technologies and machines can take the country to new heights and fulfil the dream of our Prime Minister of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. He explained that future has been coming to us at a fast pace even before the COVID-19, but the virus has changed everything. It has disrupted every sector and every life beyond imagination. Its’ impact is on all aspects-- whether it is availability of labour, supply chains, or logistics. However, the more disruptive the challenge, the bigger will be the achievement, and this is a very good time to think where we are and where we want to be.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1645020


    INPUTS FROM FIELD OFFICES

      * Punjab: Government of India has given in-principle approval for setting up a National Institute of Virology Centre for the north zone in Punjab. The Punjab Chief Minister, who had proposed this to the Centre some weeks back in the light of the Covid pandemic, welcomed the approval, saying the Virology Centre would prove to be a milestone to boost research in the field of virology, make India future ready to predict and detect viruses at the earliest so that necessary preventive steps can be taken.
      * Haryana: Haryana Health Minister, while reviewing the Sero Survey meeting through video conferencing, said that Haryana Government is all set to carry out a Sero-Survey and the blueprint for it is ready. He said that a Sero-Survey is being carried out with the aim of identifying the penetration of COVID-19 and to monitor its transmission trends.
      * Himachal Pradesh: Chief Minister has thanked the Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi for releasing another instalment of over Rs.17,000 crores into the bank accounts of 8.5 crore farmers of the country under the PM KisanSammanNidhiYojana which would go a long way in empowering the farming community.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: Arunachal Pradesh's Chief Secretary says that over Rs 15 crore spent from Chief Minister Relief Fund for Covid related management in the state so far.
      * Manipur: In Manipur COVID-19 infected 60-year-old man expired at JNIMS this morning. The deceased had co-morbid health conditions. With this, the number of COVID-19 related death reaches 12 in the state.
      * Mizoram: Three fresh cases of COVID-19 confirmed in Mizoram yesterday. Total cases of COVID-19 reached 623 in the state out of them 300 are active cases.Mizoram University postponed under graduate exams after appeals of student bodies and principal's council due to surge in COVID-19 cases.
      * Kerala:Five Covid -19 deaths were reported in the state, raising the toll to 120. There will be complete Sunday lockdown in Malappuram, which has now maximum number of patients. Spread of virus is continuing unabated in capital district with 20 more positive cases reporting till noon. A review meeting under State DGP has decided to deploy more police personnel in streets to avoid crowds. Devotees will be allowed entry in temples under Dewaswom Board from August 17 by maintaining Covid protocols. Kerala had confirmed 1184 new Covid cases yesterday. A total of 12,737 patients are at present undergoing treatment and 1.49 lakh people under surveillance in various districts.
      * Tamil Nadu: Puducherry records 276 fresh coronavirus cases and two deaths. The total cases in the UT are 5900, active cases are 2277 and death toll is 91. Puducherry government to seek Rs 25 crore from Centre to combat Covid-19. Covid-19 recovery rate in TN is 80.8%, says TN CM, seeks host of relief measures from PM during his interaction with him through video conference. 5914 new cases, 6037 recoveries & 114 deaths today reported yesterday in TN. Total Covid cases: 3,02,815; Active cases: 53,099; Deaths: 5041; Discharges: 2,44,675; Active cases in Chennai: 11,328.
      * Karnataka:Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar briefed PM about state's Covid management - as CM continues to be in home isolation post recovery from Covid-19 – during the interaction of PM with CMs through VC.Minister Sudhakar briefed media that testing has been ramped up from 20,000 tests per day to nearly 50,000 now. It is planned to be increased to 75,000 with a good mix of RTPCR & Rapid antigen tests. With 182354 total cases out of which 79908 are active cases, the state is well prepared to tackle the emerging situation with 1.14 lakh Covid Care Centre beds, 20000 general beds, 8000 Oxygen supported beds, 3000 ICU beds and 1500 ICU beds with ventilators, he added. 4267 new cases, 5218 discharges & 114 deaths were reported yesterday.
      * Andhra Pradesh:Stating that the government is focusing on testing and tracing Covid-19 cases thereby reducing the mortality rate, Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy sought the support of the Centre to ramp up the medical infrastructure in the state during his interaction with PM Modi through video conference. State has decided that all Primary Health Centers (PHC), which are the backbone of primary care in rural areas, will now operate 24 hours a day. 7665 new cases, 6924 discharges and 80 deaths reported in the State yesterday. Total cases: 2,35,525; Active cases: 87,773; Deaths: 2116; Discharges: 1,45,636.
      * Telangana: There are 17,767 vacant beds available for Covid-19 patients in government hospitals and private teaching hospitals combined, according to the state health department. 1896 new cases, 1788 recoveries & 08 deaths reported in the last 24 hours; out of 1896 cases, 338 cases reported from GHMC. Total cases: 82,647; Active cases: 22,628; Deaths: 645; Discharges : 59,374.

    FACT CHECK


  + YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1645108) Visitor Counter : 519
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam
    
    
    

+