      Ministry of Education

      Ministry of HRD extends the date of submission for Essay on Atma Nirbhar Bharat-Swatantra Bharat till 23rd August, 2020.
      Posted On: 14 AUG 2020 7:24PM by PIB Delhi


    In the run up to the Independence Day celebrations in the country, the Ministry of Human Resource Development in partnership with MyGov is organizing an online essay writing competition for specific age of school students (IX to X or Secondary Stage and XI to XII or Higher Secondary) across the country. Ministry of HRD has extended the date of submission for Essay on Atma Nirbhar Bharat-Swatantra Bharat till 23rd August, 2020. The NCERT will be the Nodal Agency for this event.


    The subtopics under the main topic for essay writing, that is, “Atma Nirbhar Bharat-Swatantra Bharat” are as follows:


    1. For Atma Nirbhar Bharat the Indian Constitution and Democracy are the biggest enablers.


    2. India at 75: A Nation Marching towards Atmanirbhar Bharat


    3. Atma Nirbhar Bharat through Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat: Innovation thrives when there is unity in diversity


    4. Digital India: Opportuinities in COVID-19 and Beyond


    5. Atma Nirbhar Bharat-Role of students in National Development


    6. Atma Nirbhar Bharat-Independence from gender, caste and ethnic biases.


    7. Atma Nirbhar Bharat: Making of a new India through Bio-Diversity and Agricultural Prosperity.


    8. While I exercise my rights I must not forget to undertake my duties to usher in an Atma Nirbhar Bharat.


    9. My physical fitness is my wealth that will build the human capital for Atma Nirbhar Bharat


    10. Conserve Blue to Go Green for an Atma Nirbhar Bharat.


    Students may submit their entries on the link below by 23rd August, 2020:


    https://innovate.mygov.in/essay-competition


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1645874) Visitor Counter : 1089
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu