      Ministry of Steel

      Ministry of Steel to organize a Webinar on Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Fostering Steel Usage in Housing & Building Construction and Aviation Sectors
      Posted On: 14 AUG 2020 2:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Steel, in association with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), is organizing a digital Seminar on ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Fostering Steel Usage in Housing & Building Construction and Aviation Sectors’ with Ministries of Housing and Urban Affairs, and Civil Aviation on August 18, 2020. The Webinar will enhance awareness of steel usage in Construction & Infrastructure development sectors and bridge the gap between users’ and suppliers for promoting steel-intensive construction. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Steel will be the Chief Guest on the occasion. Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Housing and Urban Affairs & Civil Aviation and Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, will be the Guest of Honour. ShriFaggan Singh Kulaste, Minister of State for Steel will also grace the Inaugural session.


    The webinar will focus on Users’ perspective on promoting Steel intensive designs and construction in Building, Housing, and Airport Projects. Steel Producers’ perspective about the capabilities of Indian iron and steel industry in meeting the present demand, future expansion plans, manufacturing and R&D capabilities for developing new products will also be deliberated upon.


    Steel is a viable solution for faster and sustainable development of any nation. High intensity of steel usage indicates high growth of the country, especially in growth-driving sectors such as Building & Construction and Infrastructure Development. India’s per capita consumption of steel at 74.1 kg lags global peers and is one-third the global average (224.5kg). Given the recently announced 103 lakh crore investment plan by the Government for infrastructure development over the next five years, it is the opportune time for India to transition to steel-intensive construction and avail its numerous benefits such as faster construction time, reduced life cycle cost, increased durability & quality, recyclability and environment sustainability.


    ****


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1645742) Visitor Counter : 193
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Urdu , Hindi , Punjabi , Tamil , Malayalam