      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      SHRI ARJUN MUNDA TO E-LAUNCH TRIBAL HEALTH AND NUTRITION PORTAL “SWASTHYA” ON 17TH AUGUST, 2020
      Posted On: 14 AUG 2020 6:05PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Tribal Affairs Minister Shri Arjun Munda will e-launch “Swasthya”, a first of its kindTribal Health & Nutrition Portal: One-stop solution forthe health & nutrition status of the tribal population of Indiahere on 17 th August, 2020 (Monday). Minister of State SmtRenuka Singh Saruta will grace the occasion. The Ministry of Tribal Affairs in collaboration with PiramalSwasthya, the Centre of Excellence has developed this Tribal Health and Nutrition Portal ‘Swasthya’, a one-stop solution presenting all information pertaining to tribal health and nutrition related to Scheduled Tribe people.


    ‘Swasthya’ is the first of its kind comprehensive platform for health and nutrition related information of the tribal population of India. It has a dashboard, knowledge repository, partner segment, Sickle Cell Diseases (SCD) support corner. The dashboard presents data curated from multiple sources for the 177 identified high priority tribal districts.In addition, the Portal also has research studies, innovations and best practices on tribal community curated from multiple sources related to tribal health and nutrition. In addition, the SCDSupport Corneravailable in the Portal encourages people with Sickle Cell disease or trait to register themselves. It is hoped that this Portal will bridge the existing knowledge, drive evidence-based policy making and catalyze a series of actions which will ultimately lead to overall improvements in the health and nutrition status of the tribal population in India.


    The Portal will be managed by the Centre of Excellence (CoE) for Knowledge Management inHealth and Nutrition, established by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs in collaboration with Piramal Swasthya Management and Research Institute. This CoE works towards consolidating data for tribal health & nutrition, facilitating evidence-based policy making, documenting successful models, best practices and innovative solutions, disseminating and facilitating exchange of knowledge, creating networks and collaborating with stakeholders to improve tribal health & nutrition outcomes.


    *****


    NB/SK/JK/MoTA-2/14.08.2020

    
    
    (Release ID: 1645834) Visitor Counter : 488
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Telugu , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Tamil