      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah conveys greetings to mark the International Youth Day
      
      “The greatest strength and asset of any nation is its youth. India is truly blessed to have a youth power filled with tremendous ambitions and skills”
      
      “Skilled and enthused youth have the power to make the best of the opportunities on their way”
      
      “Modi Government with its decisions like Skill India, Start-Up India, Make in India & NEP is creating an ecosystem to unlock the immense potential of our youth”
      
      “I am sure the youth will continue to strive towards Prime Minister Modi’s vision of a New India”

      Posted On: 12 AUG 2020 1:21PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah conveyed greetings to mark the International Youth Day. In a series of tweets, he said “The greatest strength and asset of any nation is its youth. India is truly blessed to have a youth power filled with tremendous ambitions and skills. I am sure that they will continue to strive towards Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s vision of New India”.


    Union Home Minister said, “Skilled & enthused youth have the power to make the best of the opportunities on their way”.


    Shri Amit Shah added “Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji’s Government with its decisions like Skill India, Start-Up India, Make in India &New Education Policy (NEP) has been constantly creating an ecosystem to unlock the immense potential of our youth”.


    Greetings on #InternationalYouthDay.

    
    The greatest strength and asset of any nation is its youth. India is truly blessed to have a youth power filled with tremendous ambitions and skills. I am sure that they will continue to strive towards PM @NarendraModi’s vision of #NewIndia.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 12, 2020

    Skilled & enthused youth have the power to make the best of the opportunities on their way. PM @NarendraModi ji’s govt with its decisions like Skill India, Start-Up India, Make in India & NEP has been constantly creating an ecosystem to unlock the immense potential of our youth.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 12, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/AD/SS/DDD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1645288) Visitor Counter : 703
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam