      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      Summary of Flood Situation as per Rainfall Forecast
      Posted On: 17 AUG 2020 6:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Based on the rainfall forecast, following advisories are issued by CWC for various States -


    Odisha, Andhra Pradesh &Telangana


    Heavy to very heavy with isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over Telangana, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh during next 24 hours. Due to ongoing extremely heavy rainfall, River Godavari is also getting good flows due to rain in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Telangana. Polavaram project on River Godavari in Andhra Pradesh is likely to get around 40000 cumec and Laxmi Barrage on River Godavari is likely to get inflows of around 20000 cumec till today night and is expected to rise in view of the rainfall forecast.


    Close watch is to be maintained. River Indravathi is likely to rise in Dantewada, Narayanpur and Bijapur Districts in Chhattisgarh. River Sabari is likely to rise rapidly in Koraput, Malkangiri Districts of Odisha and in Sukma District in Chhattisgarh and East Godavari District of Andhra Pradesh. Inflows into Balimela, Upper Kolab, Machhkund and Upper Indravathi Projects are also likely to rise but the storages in these reservoirs are 25% to 52% only and the inflows will help in increasing the storage in these reservoirs.


    River Krishna is also likely to get heavy inflows into P D Jurala in Jogulamba Gadwal District of Telangana and to Srisailam Dam in Kurnool District of Andhra Pradesh. Since the dam is about 65% filled, it is expected that with inflows for next 4 to 5 days may increase its storage substantially. Due to extremely heavy rainfall in downstream areas of river Krishna in Warangal, Khammam, Nalgonda and Krishna Districts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, river Krishna at Prakasam Barrage is getting inflows above its threshold limit and inflow forecasts have been issued for the same.


    Gujarat, Maharashtra &Goa


    There is likelihood of rise in Water Levels in the basins of Lower Mahi, Lower Narmada, Lower Tapi and Damanganga. Rivers Narmada, Tapi, Damanganga are likely to rise rapidly in association with rains forecasted for next 4-5 days. Madhuban Dam in Valsad District is likely to get heavy inflows due to the forecasted rainfall. At present, the Dam has storage of 67.09%. Close watch is to be maintained and releases if any has to be done, it should be with due care and after informing all downstream districts including Union Territories of Daman.


    Other Dams in this region such as Kadana Dam on river Mahi, Panam Dam on river Panam, Sardar Sarovar Dam on river Narmada, Ukai Dam on river Tapiare are also expected to get increased inflows. Hatnur Dam in Jalgaon District of Maharashtra is likely to get an inflow of around 1505 cumec till today night and Ukai Dam is also expected to receive around 3703 cumec till tomorrow morning. Due to forecast of extremely heavy rain in their catchment, there is likelihood of sudden rise in inflows which may have to be regulated properly following the rule curves and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) after informing all downstream Districts well in advance.


    As the rainfall of higher intensity is likely to continue for at least 1-2 days, there is likelihood of rise in levels of rivers along the West Coast in Maharashtra & Goa in the West Flowing Rivers between Tapi and Tadri. Necessary precautions have to be taken in Road and Rail Bridges which pass through these areas as they are prone to submergence. Care should be taken to regulate road and rail traffic to avoid anyincidents.


    Rajasthan & MadhyaPradesh


    Due to forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall in East Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh for next 3-4 days, there is likelihood of rise in Water Levels in rivers such as Chambal, Mahi, Sabarmati, Kalisindh, Banas (both East and West Flowing), etc. Most of the dams in these rivers are having storage between 35 to 70%, care should be exercised to monitor the situation very closely. Releases if any has to be done, it should be after advance information to all concerned downstream districts and lower riparian States. Inflows have started increasing in Panchana Dam, and Parwan Pickup Weir and have crossed the threshold limit. Inflow Forecast have been issued for these reservoirs in Rajasthan.


    Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, UttarPradesh


    Due to forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall in these States in the next 2 to 3 days, there is likelihood of rise in Water Levels in rivers such as Sutlej, Ravi, Beas, Ghaggar, Yamuna, Bhagirathi, Alaknanda, Ganga, Ramganga, Sarda, Sarju and Ghaghra. There is likelihood of flash floods in some of the hill districts in these states in association with cloud burst. Necessary precautions have to be taken for possible landslides and blockages of river flows due to landslides in high ranges of these states.


    Karnataka &Tamilnadu


    Due to continuous inflows from the previous spell of rainfall, most of the dams in Cauvery Basin have reached very close to 90-97% storage. Any local rainfall in association with convective activity may also help in adding to the flow in these basins. Round the clock watch has to be maintained for proper reservoir operation and information to all downstream Districts as well as to lower riparian States well in advance. The releases from Kabini and Krishna Raja Sagar through river are becoming in flows into Mettur Dam whichis likely to get slow in flows for next 3-4days.


    Most of the dams in Krishna Basin are also having storage between 86% to 97%. Hidkal Dam on River Ghataprabha is filled to 97% of its full capacity and hence close watch has to be maintained for any increased inflows likely due to the very heavy rainfall forecasted in Madhya Maharashtra during the next 2-3 days. Due to heavy rain in Madhya Maharashtra, Hidkal and Malaprabha are also getting heavy inflows.


    Due to river flows from upstream areas of river Krishna, Almatti Dam and Narayanpur Dam are getting heavy inflows and since these dams are filled around 90% to 92% of the capacity, both the dams are releasing the excess flow. There is forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall in Madhya Maharashtra for next 4-5 days. Due to this there is likelihood of rise in water levels in Upper Krishna Basin in the upstream of Almatti Dam.


    It is advised that close watch has to be maintained for increased inflows likely during the next 2-3 days. Releases from any of these reservoirs may be done as per rule curve and standard operating procedure.


    Bihar, Jharkhand and Gangetic WestBengal


    Many of the rivers in Bihar continue to flow in Severe to Above Normal Flood Situation with falling trend. The situation will continue for another 3-4 days.


    APS/SG/MG ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1646482) Visitor Counter : 318
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil