      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 15 AUG 2020 7:00PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    India reaches another record of highest single day recoveries; 57,381 recover in the last 24 hours; 32 States & UTs report higher than 50% Recovery Rate;

    India tests highest single day COVID samples of 8.6 lakh


    India has touched another peak of posting the highest recoveries of COVID-19 cases in a single day. 57,381 have recovered and discharged in the past 24 hours. With such high level of recoveries, India's Recovery Rate has soared past 70% ensuring more and more patients are recovering. To further build on this achievement, 32 States/UTs have exceeded the 50% mark. 12 States/UTs have exceeded the national Recovery Rate. With more patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases), the total recoveries have crossed the 18 lakh mark today (18,08,936) . T he gap between recovered patients and active COVID-19 cases has increased and crossed 11 lakh (pegged at 11,40,716 today). The current active cases (6,68,220) compose the actual case load of the country. It is 26.45% of the total positive cases today, registering further drop in the last 24 hours. They are under active medical supervision. India’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is maintained below the global average. It is on a continuous positive slide and currently stands at 1.94%. India's TEST, TRACK, TREAT strategy has achieved another peak with 8,68,679 tests done in the last 24 hours. This has taken the cumulative tests to more than 2.85 crore. the testing lab network in the country is continuously strengthened which as on today consists of 1465 labs in the country; 968 labs in the government sector and 497 private labs.


    For details:


    Prime Minister salutes the country’s valiant fight with COVID in his I-Day address to the nation; Announces the National Digital Health Mission


    The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and India’s simultaneous graded and pro-active approach that made the country “Atmanirbhar” found a place in the Prime Minister’s address to the Nation on the 74 th Independence Day, as he highlighted the accomplishments of the Central government in the field of health.Expressing his condolences for families who lost their loved ones to the disease, he said that India’s Corona warriors need to be applauded as they have exemplified the mantra “SevaParmo Dharma.” The Prime Minister reassured the nation that “we will win against corona. ‘Strong will’ will lead to victory”.He highlighted the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ spirit of the country that has resulted in achieving self-reliance amid COVID-19. He said that the country is now producing PPE kits, N95 masks, ventilators etc., which were not being manufactured domestically. The increase in production capacity of such world class items also echoed in his call “vocal for local”. Announcing the National Digital Health Mission, Prime Minister said that a Unique Health ID will be provided to every citizen which will have details of the diseases, diagnosis, report, medication etc., in a common database through a single ID.


    For details:


    Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi addressed the Nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the 74th Independence Day; Highlights from his Speech


    For details:


    English rendering of Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi’s address to the Nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the 74th Independence Day- August 15, 2020


    “ In the period of corona, many of our brothers and sisters have been affected by this pandemic; many families have been affected; many have also lost their lives. I express my condolences to all such families, and I believe the indomitable will power and determination of 130 crore countrymen will make us win over Corona and we shall definitely win…..


    In the midst of the Corona pandemic, 130 crore Indians pledged themselves to become self-reliant. Today self-reliance is etched in the mind of every Indian….


    Last year, there has been an 18% increase in FDI in India. So, even during the corona pandemic, top companies of the world are turning to India….


    Today, it is our priority to pull the people and the economy of our country out of this corona pandemic. The National Infrastructure Pipeline Project will play an important role in this endeavour…..


    These instruments have also helped a lot in delivering the services seamlessly during the Corona crisis. During this period, we continued to provide free gas cylinders to crores of poor families, irrespective of whether they had ration card or not the kitchen flames of more than 80 crores of my countrymen were kept alighted by supplying free food grains to the 80 crores countrymen; approximately 90 thousand crore rupees were transferred directly into the bank accounts…..


    You must have seen that the Indian government has sanctioned 1,00,000 crore rupees for agriculture infrastructure even during the Corona pandemic….


    During the Corona period, about 30 thousand crore rupees have been deposited into the accounts of these sisters….


    It is very natural that health sector draws attention in this period of Corona pandemic. As such, the biggest lesson of self-reliance has been taught to us by the Health Sector during this crisis. And to achieve that goal we also have to move forward……


    There is a curiosity among everybody when the Corona vaccine will be ready. This is natural. This anxiety is there in everybody and everywhere in the world…..I would like to tell my countrymen that our scientists are dutifully engaged in the laboratories. They are putting in great efforts. At present, testing for three vaccines is in different stages in the country….


    Corona is a big hurdle, but not that huge that it can stop us from moving ahead on the victorious path of self-reliant India….”


    For details:


    Address to the Nation by the Hon’ble President of India, Shri Ram NathKovind, on the eve of India’s 74th Independence Day


    “ Confident of our strengths, we reached out to help other countries in their fight against COVID-19. In responding to calls from countries for supply of medicines, India has once again shown that it stands by the global community in times of distress. We have been at the forefront in evolving regional and global strategies for an effective response to the pandemic….


    I believe that in the fight against COVID-19, life and livelihood, both are essential. We have looked at the current crisis as an opportunity to initiate reforms to revitalise the economy for the benefit of all, specially farmers and small entrepreneurs. ..


    Public hospitals and laboratories have been leading the fight against COVID-19. Public health services have helped the poor cope with the pandemic. In view of this, public health infrastructure needs to be expanded and strengthened….”


    For details:


    Telephone conversation between PM and Prime Minister of Nepal


    Prime Minister received a telephone call today from His Excellency Mr. K. P. Sharma Oli, Rt. Hon’ble Prime Minister of Nepal. The Prime Minister of Nepal greeted the Government and People of India on the occasion of its 74th Independence Day, and also conveyed congratulations for India’s recent election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. The leaders expressed mutual solidarity in the context of the efforts being made to minimise the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in both countries. Prime Minister offered India’s continued support to Nepal in this regard.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM FIELD OFFICES

      * Maharashtra: The State Cooperation Minister BalasahebPatil has tested positive for coronavirus infection and is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Karad. He is the seventh Minister of the MVA Government to test Covid positive during the last three months. Maharashtra has reported over 5.73 lakh Covid cases and active cases are 1.51 lakhs.
      * Gujarat. A record 51,225 Covid tests were conducted in Gujarat on Friday, even as the recovery rate in the state improved to 77.72 per cent. Prime Minister during his review meeting had asked Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani to increase the number of tests in the state. The number of reported cases in Gujarat is 76,569 out of which 14,299 are active cases.
      * Chhattisgarh: The state reported a record high of 13 Covid deaths during the last 24 hours, while 451 new cases were found on Friday. Out 451 cases, 142 were reported from Raipur and 59 from Durg. Meanwhile 199 patients were discharged from various hospitals.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: In Arunachal Pradesh, one more casualty reported due to COVID-19 and 95 more positive cases were detected in the state during last twenty four hours, active 852 and discharged 1750.
      * Manipur: In Manipur, 130 more people tested positive for COVID-19, One person succumbed to the disease taking the toll to 13 in the state.Manipur govt extends complete lockdown in the state till 31st August in view of detection of large number of COVID-19 cases.
      * Meghalaya: Meghalaya is starting the CM's Support program for small businesses & entrepreneurs. One-time grant support of up to Rs. 10,000 will be provided for any new small business loans of up to Rs.50,000 that are availed. A corpus fund of Rs.15 Cr has been created for the same
      * Mizoram: In Mizoram, 56 fresh cases of COVID-19 confirmed, total cases 713, active cases 365.
      * Nagaland: In Nagaland, 154 new COVID-19 positive cases detected on Friday. Total cases rise to 3322.
      * Punjab: As Covid cases continued to spike amid fears of the peak hitting the state in the next few weeks, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced extension of the night curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 pm to all cities, along with a slew of other measures to control the spread of the pandemic.
      * Haryana: Keeping in view the hardships caused by COVID-19 pandemic, Government of Haryana has decided to waive off the electricity bills of all religious places i.e. Temples (including Buddhist & Jain temples), Gurudwaras, Churches and Masjids in the state for the period April, 2020 to June, 2020 along with corresponding surcharge amount provided that they would clear their pending dues upto March, 2020, if any, by October 31, 2020.
      * Kerala: Four Covid-19 deaths were reported today pushing the toll to 143. Capital Thiruvananthapuram continues to be the hot bed of infection. 53 more inmates of Central Prison have been tested positive today. With this a total of 218 inmates have been tested positive. Meanwhile, KSRTC have decided to start inter-district bus services which were halted due to lockdown. State recorded its highest single-day count of 1,569 cases yesterday. At present, there are 14,094 patients undergoing treatment while 26,996 people have so far been cured of Covid in the state. There are currently 1,55,025 people under surveillance in various districts.
      * Tamil Nadu : People's cooperation most necessary to combat Covid-19 pandemic: Puducherry CM during Independence Day Address. Covid cases in Coimbatore crosses 8000 mark; infection tally swelled to 8,274 with 385 fresh cases on Friday and death toll rose to 164 after eight more persons succumbed to the viral infection.TN Governor BanwarilalPurohit recovered from Covid-19 and tested negative. TN records 5,890 fresh Covid cases, 117 deaths in single day. Total cases : 3,26,345; Active cases: 53,716; Deaths: 5514; Active cases in Chennai: 11,209
      * Karnataka: State government to add 10 lakh rapid antigen detection kits, as decided by Covid 19 taskforce. BBMP has asked RWAs to identify people with ILI and SARI cases. It has also launched website to rope in volunteers to create public awareness about Covid. Meanwhile state in Friday issued order prohibiting installation and worship of Ganesha in public places and advised people to celebrate GaneshaChaturiti within homes.
      * Andhra Pradesh: Governor BiswabhusanHarichandan on the occasion of Independence Day appealed to all those people who have fully recovered from Covid19 to come forward and help the patients fighting the infection by donating their plasma. UK government and Andhra Pradesh Med-Tech Zone have joined forces to plug the gap between the demand and supply of ventilators and essential medical equipment to fight the Covid19 pandemic. Selected Indian med-tech start-ups will be hosted at Med-Tech valley incubation centre in Visakhapatnam by providing financial, technical and infrastructure support necessary for manufacture. Junior doctors on Covid19 duty threaten complete boycott from Aug 17, if their demands of safety and protection were not fulfilled.
      * Telangana: Health experts and doctors treating Covid-19 patients in Telangana are increasingly seeing more people with good health and no co-morbidities dying from the virus, mainly due to late reporting at hospitals. 1864 new cases, 1912 recoveries & 10 deaths reported in the last 24 hours in the state; out of 1864 cases, 394 cases reported from GHMC. Total cases: 90,259; Active cases: 23,379; Deaths: 684; Discharges :66,196.

    YB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1646158) Visitor Counter : 302
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu
    
    
    

  
  
*