      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Government focused on enhancing forest quality and increasing tree cover in the country for maximizing carbon stock: Shri Prakash Javadekar
      
      Project Dolphinfor the conservation and protection of the Dolphins in the rivers and in oceans of the country to be launched soon: Union Environment Minister
      
      Union Environment Welcomes Finance Commission’s move towards rewarding states for Green growth; Finance Commission has increased weightage of forests from 7% to 10% while allocating central tax to be shared with states.
      Posted On: 17 AUG 2020 6:33PM by PIB Delhi


    “Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) is focused on enhancing forest quality and increasing tree cover for maximizing carbon stock.”, said the Union Environment Minister, Shri Prakash Javadekarat the States Forest Minister’s Conference held in New Delhi. Minister of State in the Environment Ministry, Shri Babul Supriyo, other officials in the Ministry, Chief Ministers of the State of Arunachal Pradesh and Goa, Deputy Chief Ministers and 24 Forest Ministers from various States participated in the four-hour long meeting held via video conferencing.


    Shri Javadekar addressing the meeting said that, “We have taken many initiatives to bring out transformational changes in our policies and programmes and implement several schemes which includes massive tree plantation, promoting urban forestry through Nagar Van Scheme, Landscape based catchment treatment of 13 major rivers, LiDAR based survey of degraded forest areas for soil moisture conservation projects and launch of National Transit Portal to facilitate smooth movement of Forest produce.”


    These efforts are critical to meet our national and international goals under National Forest Policy, Nationally Determined Commitments and restoration of degraded forest land, said Shri Javadekar.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in his independence day speech had announced the launch of Project Lion and Project Dolphin. The Union Environment Minister said that the government will launch a holistic Project Dolphin in a fortnight, for the conservation and protection of the Dolphins in the rivers and in oceans of the country.


    Project Dolphin will involve conservation of Dolphins and the aquatic habitat through use of modern technology specially in enumeration and anti-poaching activities. The project will engage the fishermen and other river/ ocean dependent population and will strive for improving the livelihood of the local communities. The conservation of Dolphin will also envisage activities which will also help in the mitigation of pollution in rivers and in the oceans.


    As announced by PM @narendramodi ji on #74thIndependenceDay , @moefcc will be launching a holistic Project #Dolphin in another 15 days for the conservation and protection of the #Dolphins in the rivers and in oceans of the country.@SuPriyoBabul @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/PfI5rVpx6I

    — Prakash Javadekar (@PrakashJavdekar) August 17, 2020

    The Union Minister also stated that the government is working towards the Project Lion, that will involve conservation of the Asiatic Lion and its landscape in a holistic manner. The Project Lion will entail habitat development, engage modern technologies in Lion management and address the issues of disease in Lion and its associated species through advanced world-class research and veterinary care. The project will also address Human-wildlife conflict and will be inclusive involving local communities living in the vicinity of Lion landscape and will also provide livelihood opportunities.


    During the State Forest Minister's meeting today stated that as announced by PM @narendramodi ji, the govt. is working towards #ProjectLion that will involve conservation of the Asiatic Lion and its landscape in a holistic manner.@moefcc @SuPriyoBabul pic.twitter.com/HLG6uhEn1d

    — Prakash Javadekar (@PrakashJavdekar) August 17, 2020

    At the meeting, Shri Javadekar stressed that states should use CAMPA funds exclusively for afforestation and plantation. “I announce that 80% of afforestation fund shall be utilized only for afforestation/plantation and the rest 20% can be used for capacity building etc. The Centre in August 2019 released Rs. 47,436 crores CAMPA funds for afforestation to various states. Ministry is also going to announce implementation of School Nursery Scheme shortly, said the Union Environment Minister during the meeting.


    At the States Forest Minister's meeting stressed again that states should use #CAMPA funds exclusively for afforestation and plantation. Emphasized that CAMPA funds is not to be used for payment of salary, travelling allowances, medicalexpenses,etc.@narendramodi @SuPriyoBabul pic.twitter.com/dNMbpF36bC

    — Prakash Javadekar (@PrakashJavdekar) August 17, 2020

    The Nagar Van Scheme which was announced on this World Environment Day for creation of 200 Nagar Van, on forest land by adopting a collaborative approach, involving various agencies like forest and other departments, NGOs, Corporate Bodies, Industries etc, was also discussed at length during the course of the meeting. Initially, the Ministry will be giving grants for fencing and soil moisture works. The primary objective is to create forested area in cities with Municipal Corporation, which will act as lungs of the cities.


    School Nursery scheme which aims at involving school students from the young age in nursery and plantation operations was also elaborated and discussed during the course of the four-hour long meeting. The objective of the scheme is to inculcate the spirit of forest and environment in the mind of young students. Scheme guidelines will be shared with the States shortly.


    Another important issue highlighted during the meeting by Shri Prakash Javadekar was the study given to ICFRE for river rejuvenation of 13 major rivers which will promote forestry along river, increase ground water recharge and reduce erosion. Similarly, LiDAR technology, an airborne remote sensing method which will assist in identification of the degraded land for construction of soil and water conservation structures and launch of a nationwide National Transit Portalto promote smooth inter-state movement of forest produce,whose pilot was launched recently was also an agenda item of the meeting.


    During the meeting the States gave their status of preparedness for implementation of various programmes initiated by Ministry and also conveyed their willingness to associate with all other initiatives of Government of India to promote green cover. States showed enthusiasm and expressed cooperation with MoEF&CC in this endeavour.


    आज,राज्यों के वनमंत्रियों के साथ हुई बैठक काफी सफल रही। मुख्यतः चार बिंदुओं पर चर्चा हुई;
    🌳नगर वन योजना का कार्यान्वयन,
    🌳राज्यों में इस साल 1000 स्कूलों में पौधारोपण,
    🌳जंगलों में पानी और पशुआहार की आपूर्ती बढ़ाना
    🎋और,वनोपज की आसान आवाजाही के लिए देशव्यापी Transit Portal. pic.twitter.com/2JxnE2O43u

    — Prakash Javadekar (@PrakashJavdekar) August 17, 2020

    The meeting was organized with a view to ensure participation and coordination of all the States in taking forward various initiatives of Govt. of India to meet the National and International Goals.


    ***


    Gaurav Khare

    
    
    (Release ID: 1646491) Visitor Counter : 937
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil