      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways introduces Drone based surveillance system for Railway Security
      
      The purpose of the drone deployment is to provide a force multiplier and aid to the effectiveness of the security personnel deployed
      
      Mumbai Division of Central Railway has recently procured two Ninja UAVs for better security and surveillance in Railway areas
      
      Nine (09) drones have been procured by RPF so far
      Posted On: 18 AUG 2020 8:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Drone surveillance technology has emerged as an important and cost effective tool for security surveillance over large areas with limited manpower. Mumbai Division of Central Railway in Indian Railways has recently procured two Ninja UAVs for better security and surveillance in Railway areas like station premises, Railway track sections, yards, workshops, etc.


    A team of four staff of Railway Protection Force (RPF), Mumbai has been trained for drone flying, surveillance and maintenance. These drones are capable of Real Time Tracking, Video Streaming and may be operated on Automatic Fail Safe Mode.


    Railway Protection Force (RPF) has planned extensive use of drones for the purpose of Railway security. Nine (09) drones have been procured by RPF so far at a cost of Rs. 31.87 Lakhs at South Eastern Railway, Central Railway, Modern Coaching Factory, Raebareli and South Western Railway.


    It is further proposed to procure seventeen (17) more drones in future at a cost of Rs. 97.52 Lakhs. Nineteen (19) RPF personnel have so far been trained in operation and maintenance of drones out of which 4 have received licenses for flying drones. Six (06) more RPF personnel are being trained.


    The purpose of the drone deployment is to provide a force multiplier and aid to the effectiveness of the security personnel deployed. It can help in inspection of Railway assets and safety of Yards, Workshops, car sheds etc. it can be used to launch surveillance on criminal and anti-social activities like gambling, throwing of garbage, hawking etc in Railway premises. It may be deployed for data collection Analysis of such data collected may prove to be extremely useful in vulnerable sections for safe operations of trains.


    The drone may be pressed in service at disaster sites for helping in rescue, recovery and restoration and coordinating of efforts of various agencies. It is very useful while undertaking mapping of railway asset to assess the encroachments on railway property. During large scale crowd management efforts, it may give vital inputs like crowd magnitude, probable time of arrival and dispersal based on which crowd regulation efforts may be planned and executed. Drones were used to enforce lockdown and monitor the movement of migrants during the COVID-19 lockdown.


    A drone camera can cover large area which requires 8-10 RPF personnel. Thus, it may lead to substantial improvement in utilization of scarce manpower. Drone beats have been designed based on railway asset, sensitivity of area, activity of criminals etc. Drone acts as an “EYE IN THE SKY” and monitors the whole area. Any suspicious activity if noticed is intimated to the nearest RPF post of division to apprehend the criminal LIVE. One such criminal was apprehended on a real time basis in Wadibunder Yard area while he was trying to commit theft inside railway coach stationed in the yard.


    *****


    DJN/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1646784) Visitor Counter : 613
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Tamil , Telugu