      Prime Minister's Office

      PM convenes Meeting to discuss ways to boost Toy manufacturing in India
      
      PM says focus should be on use of technology & innovation and towards manufacturing quality products that meet global standards
      
      Toys aligned with Indian culture and ethos should be used as pedagogical tools across all Anganwadi Centres and Schools for all-round development of children: PM
      
      Toys can be an excellent medium to further the spirit of ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat’: PM
      
      PM emphasizes the need to organize hackathons for innovations in toy technology and design
      
      India should tap the huge potential in digital gaming arena by developing games that are inspired from Indian culture and folk tales: PM
      Posted On: 22 AUG 2020 9:01PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today held a meeting with senior Ministers and officials to discuss ways to boost manufacturing and global imprint of Indian toys.


    Prime Minister said India is home to several toy clusters and thousands of artisans who produce indigenous toys which not only have cultural connect but also helps in building life-skills and psychomotor skills among children at an early age. He said such clusters should be promoted through innovative and creative methods.


    It was informed that Indian toy market has huge potential and can bring a transformative change in the industry by promoting ‘Vocal for Local’ under AatmaNirbhar Bharat campaign. Prime Minister said focus should be on use of technology & innovation and also towards manufacturing quality products that meet global standards.


    Impact of toys on psychomotor / cognitive skills of children and how it can become a means for societal change thereby helping shape the future generation of the Nation was also discussed.


    Highlighting importance of toys in moulding a child’s mind, Prime Minister said toys aligned with Indian culture and ethos should be used as pedagogical tools across all AnganwadiCentres and Schools for all-round development of children. He even suggested that youth should be engaged to come up with innovative designs and toys that can instill a sense of pride towards National goals & achievements.


    Prime Minister noted that toys can be an excellent medium to further the spirit of ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat’ and exhorted that toys should reflect India’s value system and culturally established environment-friendly approach. He further suggested using tourism as a tool to promote India’s culture especially in regions which are renowned for handcrafted toys.


    Prime Minister also emphasized the need to organize hackathons for youth and students for innovations in toy technology and design, including online games, to reflect Indian ethos and values.


    Laying emphasis on fast growing digital gaming arena, Prime Minister said India should tap the huge potential in this area and lead the international digital gaming sector by developing games that are inspired from Indian culture and folk tales.


    ******


    AP/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1647971) Visitor Counter : 873
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam