      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 19 AUG 2020 6:21PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    India continues on its path of high testing: more than 8 lakh tests/day for 2nd day in a row; Tests Per Million (TPM) continue to rise, cross 23,002 while positivity remains stable at around 8%


    India has tested more than 8 lakh COVID-19 samples for the 2nd consecutive day in a row. With a strong resolve to rapidly increase the number of tests done per day to touch 10 lakh/day testing capacity, 8,01,518 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The cumulative testing as on date has reached 3,17,42,782. The Tests Per Million too have seen a sharp rise to 23,002.India followed the track of a graded and evolving strategy, steadily strengthening its nationwide network of labs in the public and private sectors. Starting from one lab in January 2020, today 1486 labs dot the country; 975 labs in the government sector and 511 in the private sector.


    For details:


    India scales another peak: Total recoveries cross 2 million,Highest ever single day recoveries of 60,091 in last 24 hours, India’s Recovery Rate scales a peak too, races past 73%


    Fast on the heels of crossing 3 crore cumulative tests, India has recorded another high. Total number of recoveries has crossed 2 million today (20,37,870).Coupled with this is another achievement of highest ever single day recoveries of 60,091 in the last 24 hours. With this high number of COVID-19 patients recovering and being discharged from the hospitals and home isolation (in case of mild and moderate cases), the Recovery Rate has scaled the twin peak of crossing 73% (73.64%). This has also led to the declining Case Fatality Rate, which stands at a new low of 1.91% today.The record high recoveries have ensured that the actual caseload of the country viz. the active cases has reduced and currently comprises less than 1/4th (only 24.45%) of the total positive cases. India has posted 13,61,356 more recoveries than the active cases (6,76,514). Government of India along with efforts of the State/UT governments has ramped up the hospital care infrastructure across the country to ensure that medical care for different categories of positive cases is provided through the Dedicated COVID Care Centre (DCCC), Dedicated COVID Health Centre (DCHC) and Dedicated COVID Hospital (DCH). Their numbers has substantially increased too. Today there are 1667 DCH, 3455 DCHC and 11,597 DCCC. Cumulatively they provide 15,45,206 isolation beds, 2,03,959 Oxygen supported beds, and 53,040 ICU beds.


    For details:


    A big win for Digital India: Health Ministry’s ‘eSanjeevani’ telemedicine service records 2 lakh tele-consultations


    The ‘ eSanjeevani ’ digital platform of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare has completed 2 lakh tele-consultations.This milestone was achieved in a short time period of ten days only since the 9 th of August when Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare presided over a meet to commemorate the completion of 1.5 lakh tele-consultations. In what can be seen as a big push for the ‘Digital India’ initiative of the Prime Minister, the eSanjeevani platform has proved its usefulness and easy access for the caregivers and the medical community, and those seeking healthcare services in the times of COVID. eSanjeevani platform has enabled two types of telemedicine services viz. Doctor-to-Doctor (eSanjeevani) and Patient-to-Doctor (eSanjeevani OPD) Tele-consultations. The former is being implemented under the Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centre (AB-HWC). It aims to implement tele-consultation in all the 1.5 lakh Health and Wellness Centres in conjunction with identified Medical College hospitals in a ‘Hub and Spoke’ model. The Health Ministry rolled out the second tele-consultation service ‘eSanjeevaniOPD’ enabling patient-to-doctor telemedicine owing to the COVID-19 pandemic in April 2020. This has proved a boon in containing the spread of COVID while simultaneously enabling provisions for non-COVID essential healthcare. eSanjeevani has been implemented so far by 23 States and other States are in the process of rolling it out.


    F or details :


    Cabinet approves measures to provide liquidity in the Power Sector Dues to the financial stress caused by COVID-19


    Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved a one-time relaxation to Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) for extending loans to Distribution Companies (DISCOMs) above limits of working capital cap of 25% of last year’s revenues under Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY).One-time relaxation would help in providing liquidity to the power sector and ensure payments by State Governments to DISCOMs. The outbreak of the global pandemic COVID-19 in the country and the consequent nationwide lockdown has exacerbated the liquidity problems for the power sector. Revenues of the power distribution companies have nosedived as people are unable to pay for the electricity consumed while power supplies., being an essential service, have been maintained. Energy consumption has decreased substantially. The liquidity of the power sector is not expected to improve in the short term, as economic activity and power demand will take some time to pick up. There is, thus, an immediate need to infuse liquidity in the power sector for continuation of power supply.


    F or details:


    Dhanwantari Rath’ to bring Ayurveda at doorsteps of Delhi Police families, MoU signed between AIIA and Delhi Police


    A MoU was signed between All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA) and Delhi Police yesterday for extending the Ayurveda Preventive and Promotive health services in the residential colonies of Delhi Police. These services are to be provided through a mobile unit named ‘Dhanwantari Rath’ and Police Wellness Centres and are to be catered by AIIA, supported by Ministry of AYUSH.A Signed MOU was exchanged between Commissioner of Delhi Police Shri S N Shrivastava and Shri Pramod Kumar Pathak, Additional Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH. The Dhanvantri Rath was flagged off in the presence of Prof. Tanuja Nesari, Director, AIIA.AYURAKSHA a joint venture of AIIA, an autonomous Institute under Ministry of AYUSH and Delhi Police aims for maintaining the health of frontline COVID warriors like Delhi police personal through Ayurveda immunity boosting measures. In continuation of the project, Ayurveda Preventive and Promotive health care are now planned to be extended to the families of Delhi Police personnel.After the distribution of AYURAKSHA kits to nearly 80,000 police personnel for over a period of 2 months, the incidence and mortality of COVID 19 was significantly brought down in Delhi Police personnel.


    For details:


    Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme for Migrants - A holistic perspective


    Amidst the outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) crisis in the country, the Government of India had announced various economic measures under the AtmaNirbhar Bharat Package (ANBP) in the middle of May 2020 for migrant workers across the country. Pursuant to this, the Department of Food & Public Distribution had allocated a total quantity of about 8 Lakh MT of foodgrains to all States/UTs which was communicated to all States/ UTs on 15 th May 2020 under the “AtmaNirbhar Bharat Scheme (ANBS)” to help mitigate the food-security requirements of migrant/stranded migrants across the country. Accordingly, Food Department allocated about 4 LMT food grain per month and a total of 8 LMT for a period of two months i.e. May and June 2020.As per reports available up to 17th August 2020 , out of total 6.38 LMT lifted foodgrains, a total of about ­­­2.49 LMT (39%) foodgrains have been distributed by the States/UTs under the scheme to identified migrants/stranded migrants.With the distributiongoing on until 31 st August 2020, it is expected that some more migrant persons may benefit from free foodgrains under ANBS by then. Further, it is also relevant to mention that besides distribution of free food-grains under ANBS, some of the States like Uttar Pradesh,Bihar, Tripura, Manipur, J&K have also issued new ration cards after March, 2020 to beneficiaries, not covered earlier,adding nearly 45 Lakh, 15 Lakh, 25,000, 10,000, and 35,000 persons respectively to regularly receive subsidised quota foodgrains under the NFSA/PMGKAY.


    For details:


    Mobile App Launched to Provide User Friendly Digital Interface to Source Loan Applications of Street Vendors


    Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (I/C), Housing and Urban Affairs interacted with Urban Development Ministers, Chief Secretaries, UD Secretaries/Principal Secretaries, DGPs, Collectors / SPs / SSPs / Municipal Commissioners / Chief Executive Officers of 125 cities in the context of Prime Minister Street Vendors AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme which has been launched to provide credit for working capital to street vendors to resume their business. While the Scheme provides the credit facility to the vendors, there is a requirement to ensure that they are able to do business in a harassment free environment. Shri Durga Shankar Mishra, Secretary, MoHUA was also present in the meeting.


    For details:


    SCTIMST & IIT Madras start-up set up portable hospital infrastructure for COVID -19


    Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), an autonomous institute under the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Govt. of India in collaboration with ‘Modulus Housing’ a start-up incubated by IIT Madras has come up with a solution using decentralised approach to detect, manage and treat COVID-19 patients in local communities through portable microstructures.the portable microstructure named as “MediCAB”, which is modular, portable, durable, easy to set up and can be customised as per the requirements of the customer. It is foldable and is composed of four zones – a doctor's room, an isolation room, a medical room/ward, and a twin-bed ICU, maintained at negative pressure. It can be easily transported and installed anywhere in geographic locations and can be erected in just two hours with the help of four persons.


    For details:


    49 innovations in 5 focus areas receive Millennium Alliance Round 6 & COVID19 Innovation Challenge-Awards


    The Millennium Alliance Round 6 & COVID19 Innovation Challenge-Award Ceremony, which recognized 49 innovative solutions in 5 focus sectors of India, highlighted the necessity of building a highly distributed innovation ecosystem.Announcing that DST will be soon launching a new program to have highly distributed innovation ecosystem, DST Secretary, Professor Ashutosh Sharma said that to have a startup doing innovation it is important to have networking, support, seed money, prototyping facility and all of these facilities could be provided outside the physical space of incubators.


    For details:


    Dr Harsh Vardhan digitally addresses FSSAI’s Eat Right Challenge Orientation Workshop


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare presided over an online orientation workshop organised by Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) as part of its Eat Right Challenge. He also launched FSSAI’s ‘Eat Right India’ Handbook and the website eatrightindia.gov.in to help various stakeholders scale up ‘Eat Right India’ initiatives across the country. Dr Harsh Vardhan spoke of the key role played by healthy food and nutrition in combating morbidity. Stating that diet helps in building one’s resilience and immunity towards various kinds of diseases, he emphasised “61.8% deaths from non-communicable like diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular complications etc., are directly or indirectly related to faulty diet. Even communicable diseases like tuberculosis disproportionately affect people who are undernourished. People of the same household have been showing different responses to COVID based on their immunity acquired through nutrition.”


    For details:


    IN PUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Chandigarh: The Administrator, UT Chandigarh, stated that the focus of the Administration should be for early detection of the cases, particularly those of patients with co-morbidities, so that the fatalities could be kept at a minimum. He also directed GMSH-16 to start mobile testing facilities so that testing teams could go on mobile vans and collect samples and give test results on-the-spot. This will be helpful to senior citizens, who are reluctant to go to hospitals for such testings.
      * Kerala:Regarding the issue of collection of CDRs of Covid patients, the State government told the Kerala High Court that that it required just the tower location of Covid positive patients and not the other call details of a more personal nature. The Court was also told that CDRs are not being collected at the moment. Meanwhile, five more people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state till noon, pushing the death toll to 174. The weekly Cabinet meet did not take place today as Chief Ministers and six other Ministers are under self- quarantine following a visit to Karipur air crash site. As many as 1,758 new active cases of Covid-19 were diagnosed in Kerala yesterday. Currently 16,274 patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals across the State and there are 1.65 lakh people under observation in various districts.
      * Tamil Nadu:State urges Centre to speed up various water projects. TN sees a spurt in applications under revised e-pass system resulting in heavy traffic on highways and congestion at major toll plazas. With Tasmac shops reopening in Chennai, health experts call for caution. 5709 new Covid cases, 5850 recoveries & 121 deaths reported yesterday. 1182 cases from Chennai. Total cases: 3,49,654; Active cases: 53,860; Deaths: 6007; Discharges: 2,89,787; Active cases in Chennai: 12,103.
      * Karnataka:State government has revised guidelines for celebrating Ganesha Charthurthi, only one public celebration pet ward or village allowed and bans festival related processions and cultural events. Today medical education minister spoke to government and private lab heads on conducting covid test as per target.
      * Andhra Pradesh: In the light of Vijayawada Swarna Palace hotel incident which claimed lives of 10 Covid patients on August 9, the Andhra Pradesh government has put a special focus on Covid Care Centres across the state. Besides increasing monitoring of hospitals, steps have been taken to strengthen vigilance. Krishna district officials acted on a war footing following orders issued by the Medical Health Commissioner by installing CCTV cameras in 13 select hospitals providing Covid medical care. Former TDP MLA JC Prabhakar Reddy who is currently in Kadapa Jail tested positive; 317 prisoners were tested positive for the virus in Kadapa Jail. 9652 new cases, 9211 discharges and 88 deaths reported yesterday. Total cases in the State: 3,06,261; Active cases: 85,130; Deaths: 2820.
      * Telangana:1763 new cases, 1789 recoveries & 08 deaths reported in the last 24 hours; out of 1763 cases, 484 cases reported from GHMC. Total cases: 95, 700; Active cases: 20,990; Deaths: 719; Discharges: 73,991. As per new rule, only one member will be seated in a bench during the monsoon session of the State Legislative Assembly, which is scheduled to commence on September 7 amid the Covid-19 pandemic.
      * Arunachal Pradesh; Arunachal Pradesh registered the highest spike for a single day with 133 COVID-19 cases with Upper Subansiri taking the bulk of caseload (65 positive cases) and West Kameng was second (22 cases).
      * Assam: In Assam, 40 bravehearts joined the plasma donation camp at Tezpur medical college and hospital tweeted the Health Minister of Assam Shri Himanta Biswa Sarma.
      * Manipur: With 78 new cases and 55 recoveries, the recovery rate in Manipur now stands at 58%. There are 1958 active cases in the state.In Manipur with the death of one more person due to COVID related complications, the death toll in the state has risen to 18.
      * Mizoram: In Mizoram 45 new cases of COVID-19 confirmed yesterday. Total cases in the state reached 860 and active cases stand at 481.
      * Nagaland: In Nagaland, the district administration of Peren orders sealing of 5 houses in Athibung sub-division after detection of COVID-19 positive cases. Total lockdown in Mon district's Aboi sub-division lifted.
      * Maharashtra: Seven of the ten districts in India with highest Covid Test Positivity rate are in Maharashtra, indicating the virus is spreading fast in the state and testing needs to be ramped up. The seven districts are Raigad, Thane, Nashik, Dhule, Pune, Jalgaon and Satara. Raigad with a case positivity rate of 31.7% tops the chart, while Mumbai with a Positivity rate of 19.7% is not in the top 10 list. Other three districts are located in Bihar. Public Health experts consider positivity rate, which is the proportion of tests that return positive result, a key benchmark to gauge disease transmission The Bombay High Court has asked the Maharashtra government if it has a regulatory mechanism in place to ensure that private hospitals and nursing homes do not overcharge for PPE kits and other ancillary items during the COVID-19 pandemic. Maharashtra government has directed district collectors to take strict action against hospitals covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana and yet found to be overcharging COVID-19 patients. Besides imposing heavy penalties, the government has asked collectors to cancel registration of such hospitals and file police complaints.
      * Gujarat: In Gujarat, 1,126 new cases of COVID-19 recorded yesterday. Out of 1,126 new cases, the maximum 175 cases were reported from Surat. Ahmedabad city recorded 149 new cases during the last 24 hours. According to the State Health Department, the recovery rate improved further and reached up to 78.71 per cent.
      * Rajasthan: Rajasthan Government has decided to increase beds with oxygen facility at all the district hospitals and hospitals attached to medical colleges. Government has also decided to motivate nursing personnel working in night shifts. Health Minister Dr. Raghu Sharma has said that Corona cases have increased in the state at a few places due to super spreaders. He said that random sampling is being done of milk vendors, vegetable vendors and shopkeepers so that spread of infection could be controlled.
      * Madhya Pradesh: Madhya Pradesh has ranked 16th according to a comparative status of active patients in the country. In Madhya Pradesh, a unique campaign 'Ek Sankalp - Bujurgo ke naam’ i.e. 'a commitment for elders' is being run by the Chhatarpur Police in the midst of corona infection in the state. This unique campaign is proving to be a boon for the elderly people living alone in homes during the global pandemic COVID-19. In this campaign, the police are taking care of the elderly people from the food to their health.

    FACT CHECK


    ******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1647018) Visitor Counter : 272
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam
    
    
    

*