      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah thanks the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for approving the creation of National Recruitment Agency (NRA)
      
      “Landmark day for India's youth”
      
      “PM Modi has given the due right to the job seeking youth of the country by ensuring transparency and ease in the recruitment process”
      
      “NRA is an unprecedented step taken by the Modi Government as it would create a uniform transformative recruitment process”
      
      “This transformational reform will remove the hurdles of multiple exams for Central Government jobs through Common Eligibility Test (CET)”
      
      "Through exam centres in each district, test in multiple languages and CET score validity of 3 years, NRA will provide equal opportunities to all sections of the society”
      
      “Single test will reduce the financial burden, which will greatly benefit the candidates”
      Posted On: 19 AUG 2020 8:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah has thanked the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for approving the creation of National Recruitment Agency (NRA) in today's cabinet meeting. Calling it a landmark day for India's youth, Shri Amit Shah said, “this transformational reform will remove the hurdles of multiple exams for Central Government jobs through Common Eligibility Test (CET).”


    The Union Home Minister said, “NRA will provide equal opportunities to all sections of the society as each district will have an exam centre, test will be in multiple languages and CET score will be valid for 3 years. Single test will also reduce the financial burden, which will greatly benefit the candidates.”


    Shri Amit Shah said, “National Recruitment Agency is an unprecedented step taken by the Modi Government as it would create a uniform transformative recruitment process. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji has given the due right to the job seeking youth of the country by ensuring transparency and ease in the recruitment process.”


    A landmark day for India's youth!

    
    I thank PM @NarendraModi ji for approving the creation of #NationalRecruitmentAgency (NRA) in today's cabinet. This transformational reform will remove the hurdles of multiple exams for central govt jobs through Common Eligibility Test (CET).

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 19, 2020

    NRA will provide equal opportunities to all sections of the society as each district will have an exam centre, test will be in multiple languages and CET score will be valid for 3 years. Single test will also reduce the financial burden, which will greatly benefit the candidates.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 19, 2020

    #NationalRecruitmentAgency is a unprecedented step taken by Modi govt as it would create an uniform transformative recruitment process. PM @NarendraModi ji has given the due right to the job seeking youth of the country by ensuring transparency & ease in the recruitment process.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 19, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/SS/DDD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1647085) Visitor Counter : 256
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu