      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Online Executive Development Programme organised by National Sugar Institute, Kanpur inaugurated
      
      Convert sugar factories into a hub of bio-energy and other value-added products including specialty sugars for being “Atmanirbhar: Secretary, Department of Food & Public Distribution
      
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2020 6:55PM by PIB Delhi


    A five days ‘Executive Development Programme’ organized online by National Sugar Institute, Kanpur, UP was today virtually inaugurated by the Secretary, Food & Public Distribution, Shri Sudhanshu Pandey. The programme is being attended by around 100 senior executives from Indian & overseas sugar industry. In his inaugural address, Secretary DoFPD, talked about the global sugar scenario and greater need for developing flexi sugar factories producing sugar & ethanol as per relative economics and market demand. He stressed upon converting sugar factories into a hub of bio-energy and other value-added products including specialty sugars for being “Atmanirbhar”. While complimenting the institute, he stressed for conducting more such online programmes for enriching the knowledge of working personnel so as to ensure an economically and environmentally sustainable sugar industry.


    Shri Subodh Kumar Singh, Joint Secretary (Sugar & Administration), DoFPD also addressed the programme and called upon the sugar factories to take up ethanol production by utilizing sugarcane juice, syrup and B heavy molasses etc. to boost up ethanol availability for Ethanol Blending Programme and balance sugar production-demand scenario. He said that against the ethanol blending target of 10%, we are still into 5% blending only and as ethanol market is assured, its production can help sugar factories in improving their financial conditions. It is in the larger interest of the nation being clean and green fuel, for attaining energy security and conserving foreign exchange required for import of crude oil, he added.


    Prof. Narendra Mohan, Director, National Sugar Institute, Kanpur in his lecture on “Strategic Planning & Optimization of Resources” suggested that looking to the sugar surplus and impact of Covid-19, the executives are required to follow the mantra of “Revisit, Reorient and Recreate” so as work out best business models in the present scenario. Safe food from “Farm to Fork” and production of “N-O-N” i.e. Natural, Organic and Nutritive sweeteners should be high on agenda for the sugar industry.


    Prof. Ross Broadfoot from Queensland University of Technology, Australia while giving an overview of the technological scenario in various sugar producing countries, emphasized upon adopting various technological advancements for ever-changing business requirements. While diversifications are important to reduce dependency on income from sugar, it is important to benchmark the efficiency parameters and draw SOPs so as to reduce the cost of production, he added.


    Dr. Vinay Sharma, Professor, IIT-Roorkee also delivered lecture on “Collaborative Leadership and Leadership Development”. For higher productivity and conducive business environment it is important for every worker to take up ownership for the job he is assigned with.


    ****


    APS/SG/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1648261) Visitor Counter : 351
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Tamil , Telugu