      Ministry of Earth Science

      All India Impact based Severe Weather Warning
      
      Heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls at isolated places very likely over East Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh
      
      Heavy rainfall at isolated places over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, North Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Assam & Meghalaya, Coastal Andhra Pradesh & Yanam, Rayalseema, Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal and Odisha
      
      Heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls at isolated places very likely over East Madhya Pradesh on August 28, 2020

      Posted On: 27 AUG 2020 2:28PM by PIB Delhi

    ♦ The *Well Marked Low Pressure Area* lies over *southwest Jharkhand & neighborhood*. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards across north Chhattisgarh, north Madhya Pradesh and south Uttar Pradesh during next 3 days and weaken gradually.


    
    ♦ Western end of the Monsoon Trough runs close to the foothills of Himalayas and the eastern end runs to the south of its normal position. Western end is very likely to shift southwards from tomorrow and remain along its normal position for subsequent 2 days and shift northwards to the foothills of Himalayas thereafter for subsequent 4-5 days.
    
    ♦ In addition, the convergence of strong lower level southwesterly winds from Arabian Sea and easterly winds from Bay of Bengal is very likely over the plains of Northwest India from tomorrow onwards for subsequent 2 days.
    
    ♦ Under the influence of the above systems:
    
    a) Widespread rainfall with *Isolated Extremely Heavy falls* are very likely over *East Madhya Pradesh on 27th & 28th and over Chhattisgarh & Vidarbha on 27th* August, 2020.
    
    b) Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with Isolated heavy falls very likely over Uttarakhand & West Uttar Pradesh till 31st; over Punjab on 27th & 28th; over Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi on 28th & 29th; over West Rajasthan during 29th-31st; over East Rajasthan during 28th-31st August, 2020. Isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely over East Rajasthan on 29th & 30th August, 2020.


    Forecast:


    (MID-DAY)


    27 August (Day 1):


    ♦ Heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls at isolated places very likely over East Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh; heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Telangana and West Madhya Pradesh and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, North Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Assam & Meghalaya, Coastal Andhra Pradesh & Yanam, Rayalseema, Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal and Odisha.


    ♦ Moderate thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at isolated places very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad,


    Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, East Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gangetic West Bengal, Assam & Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram & Tripura, Coastal Andhra Pradesh & Yanam, Rayalseema and Tamilnadu,Puducherry & Karaikal.


    ♦ Strong Wind (speed reaching 50-60 kmph) very likely over Southwest & West central Arabian Sea and (speed reaching 40-50 kmph) over North Bay of Bengal and along & off Odisha-West Bengal coasts.Squally weather with wind (speed reaching 45-55 kmph) over Northeast Arabian Sea. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas.


    28 August (Day 2):


    ♦ Heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls at isolated places very likely over East Madhya Pradesh; heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over West Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, East Rajasthan, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam & Meghalaya, Gujarat State, Konkan & Goa and Telangana.


    ♦ Moderate to severe thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at isolated


    places very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, East Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam & Meghalaya and Nagaland,Manipur, Mizoram & Tripura.


    ♦ Strong Wind (speed reaching 45-55 kmph) very likely over Southwest Arabian Sea. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas.


    29 August (Day 3):


    ♦ Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places likely over East Rajasthan, West Madhya Pradesh,Gujarat State and Konkan & Goa and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Uttarakhand, West Uttar Pradesh, East Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, West Rajasthan, ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra.


    ♦ Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning likely at isolated places over Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Assam & Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram & Tripura and Interior Karnataka.


    ♦ Strong Wind (speed reaching 45-55 kmph) likely over Southwest Arabian Sea.Squally weather with wind (speed reaching 45-55 kmph) over Gujarat coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas.


    30 August (Day 4):


    ♦ Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places likely over East Rajasthan and Saurashtra & Kutch and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Uttarakhand, West Uttar Pradesh, West Rajasthan, West Madhya Pradesh, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim, Gujarat region, Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal and Kerala & Mahe.


    ♦ Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning likely at isolated places over Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Interior Karnataka, Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal and Kerala & Mahe.


    ♦ Strong Wind (speed reaching 45-55 kmph) likely over Southwest Arabian Sea.Squally weather with wind (speed reaching 45-55 kmph) over Gujarat coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas.


    31 August (Day 5):


    ♦ Heavy rainfall at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim, Assam & Meghalaya, Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal and Kerala & Mahe.


    ♦ Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning likely at isolated places over Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal and Kerala & Mahe.


    ♦ Strong Wind (speed reaching 45-55 kmph) likely over Southwest Arabian Sea. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas.


    Impact expected over East Madhya Pradesh on 27 th & 28 th and over Vidarbha


    & Chhattisgarh on 27 th August due to Heavy rainfall


    · Localized Flooding of roads, water logging in low lying areas and closure of underpasses mainly in urban areas of the above region.


    · Occasional reduction in visibility due to heavy rainfall.


    · Disruption of traffic in major cities due to water logging in roads leading to


    increased travel time.


    · Minor damage to kutcha roads.


    · Possibilities of damage to vulnerable structure.


    · Localized Mudslides.


    · Damage to horticulture and standing crops in some areas due to inundation.


    · It may lead to riverine flooding in some river catchments (for riverine flooding please visit website of center water commission ( http://www.cwc.gov.in/) )


    · For specific district wise impact kindly visit IMD’s sate level meteorological center


    websites ( https://mausam.imd.gov.in/imd_latest/contents/departmentalweb.php ) and national website ( https://mausam.imd.gov.in/ ).


    Action Suggested


    · Check for traffic congestion on your route before leaving for your destination.


    · Follow any traffic advisories that are issued in this regard.


    · Avoid going to areas that face water logging problem often.


    · Avoid staying in vulnerable structure.


    Impact expected over West Bengal and Odisha coasts on 27 th August


    · Sea conditions will be rough to very rough


    · Strong Wind speed about 45-55 kmph.


    Action Suggested


    · Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas.


    Kindly visit www.rsmcnewdelhi.imd.gov.in and www.mausam.imd.gov.in for updates on the system .


    *****


    NB/KGS/(IMD releases)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648926) Visitor Counter : 322
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Punjabi , Tamil