      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Nominations for Padma Awards-2021 open till 15th September, 2020
      Posted On: 28 AUG 2020 6:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Online nominations/recommendations for the Padma Awards to be announced on the occasion of Republic Day, 2021 have started from 1 st May, 2020. The last date for nominations for Padma Awards is 15 th September, 2020. The nominations/recommendations for Padma Awards will be received online only on the Padma Awards portal https://padmaawards.gov.in . Already 8035 registrations have been made on the portal against which 6361 nominations/recommendations have been completed.


    The Padma Awards, namely, Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri, are amongst the highest civilian awards of the country. Instituted in 1954, these Awards are announced on the occasion of the Republic Day every year. The award seeks to recognize ‘work of distinction’ and is given for distinguished and exceptional achievements/service in all fields/disciplines, such as, Art, Literature and Education, Sports, Medicine, Social Work, Science and Engineering, Public Affairs, Civil Service, Trade and Industry etc. All persons without distinction of race, occupation, position or sex are eligible for these Awards. Government servants including those working with PSUs, except Doctors and Scientists, are not eligible for Padma Awards.


    The Government is committed to transform Padma Awards into “People’s Padma”. All citizens are therefore requested to make nominations/recommendations including self-nomination.


    The nominations/recommendations should contain all relevant details specified in the format available on the above said Padma Portal, including a citation in narrative form (maximum 800 words), clearly bringing out the distinguished and exceptional achievements/service of the person recommended in her/his respective field/discipline.


    The Ministry of Home Affairs has requested all Central Ministries/Departments, States/UT Governments, Bharat Ratna and Padma Vibhushan awardees, Institutes of Excellence that concerted efforts may be made to identify talented persons whose excellence and achievements really deserve to be recognized from amongst women, weaker sections of the society, SCs & STs, divyang persons and persons who are doing selfless service to the society.


    Further details in this regard are available under the heading 'Awards and Medals' on the website of Ministry of Home Affairs ( www.mha.gov.in ). The statutes and rules relating to these awards are available on the website with the link https://padmaawards.gov.in/AboutAwards.aspx .


    *****


    NW/RK/PK/SS/AD/DDD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1649291) Visitor Counter : 338
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu