      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Union Ministers Shri Gowda and Shri Mandaviya complements NPPA on its 23rd Foundation Day today for playing crucial role in reasonable pricing and availability of essential medicines
      
      Shri Gowda applauds NPPA for working tirelessly to ensure availability of life-saving drugs at reasonable prices and towards the vision of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for affordable health care system to all citizens
      
      NPPA also prevented any shortage of medicines during COVID19 and resolved Public Grievances efficiently : Shri Gowda
      
      Shri Mandaviya praises NPPA for working tirelessly for Healthy Nation as envisioned by Prime Minister and helping commonmen save crores of rupees and for adopting Digital Technology to propel the Digital India Mission

      Posted On: 29 AUG 2020 4:23PM by PIB Delhi

    On the foundation day of National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA) Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda congratulated NPPA “for working tirelessly to ensure availability of life-saving drugs at reasonable prices consistently, towards the vision of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for affordable health care system to all citizens”. Recognizing the crucial role being played by NPPA during COVID 19 pandemic, the Minister also noted, "It also prevented any shortage of medicines during COVID19 and resolved Public Grievances efficiently through active Control room. Also, catered to the needs of over 120 countries by supplying critical medicines by india during COVID .


    In a tweet Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of Shipping and Minister of State in the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers acknowledged the important role being played by NPPA , “29th August is an important day for India as NPPA was founded to control the prices of essential & life saving medicines.NPPA is working tirelessly with the goal of Healthy Nation as envisioned by Prime Minister and is helping to save crores of rupees of common men.” NPPA is using digital technology to discharge its functions and the same was noted by MoS, NPPA is propelling Digital India mission by 1.Pharma Sahi Daam-app to check prices of medicines


    2. Pharma Jan Samadhan-public grievance system to help people resolve their problems.


    3. Pharma Data Bank-online information collection from Pharma manufacturers.”


    On the occasion, Dr. P.D. Vaghela, Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals also noted that NPPA through its recent efforts has set-up Price Monitoring and Research Units (PMRUs) for strengthening monitoring and public awareness in 13 States/UTs. He underlined the role that NPPA plays by giving key inputs to various Ministries/ Departments of Government of India on specific issues, which is important in taking decisions for policy formulation and implementation.


    Speaking on the occasion, Smt. Shubhra Singh, Chairman, NPPA highlighted the fact that NPPA strives to strike a balance between the interests of the consumers and the Pharmaceutical Industry as per the ambit of the DPCOs. During its 23 years of existence, NPPA has been working towards the larger goal of a Healthy Nation by facilitating affordable health care through pricing of NLEM drugs, knee implants, stents, and more recently through the Trade Margin Rationalisation (TMR) of anti-cancer drugs that resulted in substantial annual saving to the consumers across the country. Specifically, in the times of COVID-19 pandemic, NPPA through its Control Room worked 24 x 7 to promptly resolve issues and problems of citizens, manufacturers and marketers.


    During lockdown period, it addressed the issues of supply-chain constraints of non-availability of raw material, packaging material and manpower too.


    NPPA was set-up as an independent Regulator on 29th August, 1997 for pricing of drugs and to ensure availability and accessibility of medicines at affordable prices. The regulator, an attached office of the Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP), Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers was created vide Government of India Resolution published in the Gazette of India number 159 dated 29th August, 1997. The functions of NPPA include fixation and revision of prices of Scheduled drugs under Drug (Price Control) Orders issued from time to time, as well as monitoring and enforcement of prices and ensuring availability and accessibility of all medicines and medical devices, including non scheduled drugs.


    ****


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1649494) Visitor Counter : 271
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Tamil , Telugu