      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Skilled Manpower is a must to make India a Manufacturing hub: Shri Nitin Gadkari
      
      Shri Gadkari inaugurates Technology Centre (TC) at Bhiwadi; 15 new TCs to be set up soon
      Posted On: 31 AUG 2020 3:37PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and Road Transport & Highways inaugurated Technology Centre set up at Bhiwadi in Alwar District of Rajasthan today via video conferencing. He said that manufacturing sector contributes around 22 to 24% in the GDP of the Country and in wake of 'Atmanirbharat Bharat’ call of the Prime Minister, he informed that we are making 15 new Technology Centres (TCs) and upgrading 18 existing TCs to create skilled manforces, adding that killed man power is a must to make our country a manufacturing hub.


    Shri Gadkari further said TCs can work as a catalyst in the area and we are thinking of providing loans to TCs so that they may buy new machinery and new technology to cater to the needs of local industries. Work on Extension Centres is also going on for these TCs. He appealed to State Governments to provide land and other logistic support for these Extension Centres. These Extension Centre can fulfill the needs of new and existing industries of the area. He suggested that infrastructure of existing Polytechniques, ITI’s, Engineering Colleges should be utilized for skilling the youth and support of industries can also be taken.


    Shri Pratap Chandra Sarangi, Minister of State for MSME and Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries congratulated the people of Bhiwadi & Rajasthan for Technology Centre and expressed hope that it will prove to be a milestone for development of the area. He said that country is facing economic crisis these days due to COVID-19 Pandemic and these Centres are of utmost importance as they will help in increasing production, reducing unemployment and fulfill the dream of a self reliant Country. He also appealed to youth of the country to improve their skills, make themselves industry ready and respond to the call of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ given by the Prime Minister.


    Shri A.K. Sharma, Secretary, MSME said that the upcoming Technology Centres will provide assistance to industry predominantly MSMEs in General Engineering, Automotive, Fragrance & Flabour and ESDM sectors and are being equipped with multiple cutting manufacturing technologies, such as CNC Machines, 3D Manufacturing/Additive Manufacturing, Laser/ Ultrasonic machining, Robotics and Process Automation, Precision measurement/ Metrology equipment, state-of-the art Electronics Manufacturing Facilities, Calibration and Testing Facilities for Electronic System Design and Manufacturing. The Ministry of MSME, through the Development Commissioner (MSME), is implementing Technology Centre Systems Program (TCSP) to establish 15 new TCs and upgrade the 18 existing TCs.


    Shri Prasadi Lal Meena, Minister of Industries and State Enterprises, Government of Rajasthan, Shri Mahant Balaknath, Member of Parliament and Shri Sandeep Yadav, Member of Legislative Assembly were also present on the occasion.


    ******


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1649985) Visitor Counter : 318
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Assamese , Manipuri , Odia , Tamil , Telugu