      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah mourns the passing away of former President of India, Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee
      
      “Pranab Da was a vastly experienced leader who served the nation with utmost devotion; his distinguished career is a matter of great pride for the entire country”
      
      “Pranab Da's life will always be cherished for his impeccable service and indelible contribution to our motherland. His demise has left a huge void in Indian polity.

      Posted On: 31 AUG 2020 7:34PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah has mourned the passing away of former President of India, Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. In a tweet, Shri Amit Shah said, “Deeply anguished on the passing away of former President of India, Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee ji.”


    The Union Home Minister said, “He was a vastly experienced leader who served the nation with utmost devotion. Pranab da’s distinguished career is a matter of great pride for the entire country.”


    Shri Amit Shah said, “Pranab Da's life will always be cherished for his impeccable service and indelible contribution to our motherland. His demise has left a huge void in Indian polity. My sincerest condolences are with his family and followers on this irreparable loss. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti.”


    Deeply anguished on the passing away of former President of India, Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee ji. He was a vastly experienced leader who served the nation with utmost devotion. Pranab da’s distinguished career is a matter of great pride for the entire country.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 31, 2020

    Pranab Da's life will always be cherished for his impeccable service and indelible contribution to our motherland. His demise has left a huge void in Indian polity. My sincerest condolences are with his family and followers on this irreparable loss. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) August 31, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/AD/SS/DDD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1650101) Visitor Counter : 140
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada