      Ministry of Textiles

      Smt Smriti Zubin Irani dedicates projects in Assam for ensuring sustainable livelihood to women
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2019 7:04PM by PIB Guwahati


    Union Minister of Textiles Smt Smriti Zubin Irani today inaugurated various projects under the Ministry of Textiles at Udalguri in presence of Union Minister of State for Home Shri Kiren Rijiju and Members of Parliament Shri Ramen Deka and Shri Biswajit Daimary.


    In her address, while speaking of the Rs 55 crore Integrated Soil to Silk Project, the Minister said that the project envisages for new Eri plantation at 100 hectares of land. Moreover through this project the Central Silk board will work towards rejuvenation of 600 hectares of existing Eri Farms, she added.


    The Minister further said that the project will facilitate Post cocoon activities for on-farm sector like plantation, seed graineur, spinning, reeling etc. It will also provide handlooms and work sheds to 2500 weavers which in turn will provide important linkages for self-sustenance of the production activities, she said. The project would generate direct employment for 15,600 persons during the project period and 7,000 persons per year when the project attains full capacity, she added.


    Smt Irani inaugurated the Eri Spun Silk Mill and said that the expected turnover from the project during the 1st year is around Rs 10.00 crore with a net profit of Rs 3.00 crore. The project, which will be implemented directly by State in co-coordination with Central Silk Board, is expected to generate direct employment to 107 persons throughout the year and indirect employment to around 1,500 Eri farmers through backward linkage and around 730 weavers through forward linkage, she added.


    The Minister took special mention of the Eri Silk Development Project which has been dedicated for sustainable livelihood to women of BTC through Tapioca plantation at Kokrajhar at a total cost of Rs.18.63 crore for conducting silkworm rearing, for Eri cocoon production and further value addition. Under this project, 1000 acres of Tapioca plantation with 1400 beneficiaries will be covered, she added. She also said, “ The objective of the project is to utilize Tapioca plantation for dual purpose i.e ‘tuber’ for food and ‘leaves’ for Eri silkworm to cover tribal families below poverty line for poverty alleviation besides exploiting available natural resources to the best advantage of the Eri Silkworm rearing and weaving sector”.


    The Minister, while referring to commitment of the government towards investing in value addition of products, expressed her satisfaction in being able to dedicate to the people two Common Facility Centres in this region. This will ensure that the commitment of the Central Silk Board of Soil to Silk is realised, she added.


    The Minister exhorted to the people and their representative to adopt and practice the new skill of turning waste silk into new fabric. This will help in realising the idea of ‘Waste to Wealth’ in the weaving sector as well, she added. The minister concluded her address congratulating the Central Silk Board in realising the dream of the Prime Minister of India of establishing and making functional an Apparel Manufacturing Factory in each of the States of the North East within two years of his making the commitment.


    The meeting was also attended by Member Secretary of Central Silk Board and other officials of the Central and State Government.


    Earlier in the day the Minister also visited Itanagar and Arunachal and dedicated to the people several projects under her Ministry.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566024) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Assamese