      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      NHAI takes steps to facilitate availability of FASTags for Electronic Toll Collection
      Common Services Centre to set up sale points at Toll Plazas
      
      FASTags can also be purchased online
      
      Exclusive lane for FASTag vehicles to be operational at all toll plazas from 1st September, 2017.
      Posted On: 17 AUG 2017 4:24PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    In order to facilitate the availability of FASTags for Electronic Toll Collection, NHAI has taken two revolutionary steps in consultation with RBI and NPCI . These include Online sale of FASTags and offline sale through Common Services Centre (CSC) near toll plazas.


    FASTag can also be purchased online from Issuer Banks websites / NHAI website / IHMCL website and will be delivered by courier at the door step of the purchaser. It is expected that this move will increase the sale of FASTags by improving availability and access.


    Apart from the online sale, from tomorrow, 18 th August, 2017, FASTags can also be bought from sale points of Common Services Centre (CSC) to be set up near toll plazas. CSC has a proven track record of making 20 crore Adhar Cards and achieving many other milestones of Digital India in short duration due to their vast network. It is expected that the association with CSC will give the ETC ecosystem a further boost.


    Hybrid ETC work that involves installation & integration of RFID readers in all the Toll Plaza lanes is already under progress and is likely to be completed by 31 st October, 2017. Out of all Hybrid Lanes, at least one shall be exclusively dedicated for FASTag vehicles where no other mode of Toll Payment shall be accepted . This exclusive one lane for FASTag vehicles will be operational with effect from 1 September, 2017.


    In pursuance of PM Modi’s drive for a cashless economy, NHAI has been working on installation and efficient execution of ETC infrastructure at all the toll plazas under its jurisdiction. The work being done by NHAI in this direction, will provide safe, smooth and seem less journey to commuters on National Highways.


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499937) Visitor Counter : 195
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati