      President's Secretariat

      Human safety and lives must always come first, says President Kovind to Indian Mining Industry
      Posted On: 17 AUG 2017 5:38PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind presented the National Safety Awards (Mines) for the years 2013 and 2014 at a function held at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi today (August 17, 2017).


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that India is endowed with an impressive mineral wealth. Today, the mineral sector contributes 2.6 per cent of our national GDP and provides direct employment to over one million people on a daily average basis, and helps the lives of their families.


    The President said that in recent decades, the Indian mining industry has progressed appreciably in production and productivity through intensive mechanisation and adoption of new technology. Never before in its long history has the Indian mining industry experienced such revolutionary change, at such an accelerated pace. The balance between greater productivity and profit margins and the safety of workers is vital. Human safety and lives must always come first. They are always the priority.


    The President said that he was confident that the National Safety Awards in Mines will continue to be an excellent motivator for upholding safety and welfare standards in the mines of our country. The safety practices of the award winning mines from today’s event should be case studies for students of mining engineering and management. Students should also visit such mines as part of their familiarisation programmes. Unique safety features introduced by the award winning mines should be highlighted by relevant authorities and universally adopted, as may be applicable. The President urged mining companies to design enlightened policies to give back to workers and families of workers, to the local community and to larger society.


    Please click to read Full text of President’s speech in Hindi.


    Please click to read English version of President’s speech.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499975) Visitor Counter : 170
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati