      Ministry of Rural Development

      Best quality homes under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin)
      Posted On: 06 JUL 2017 11:28AM by PIB Delhi


    Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi launched the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin) or PMAY-G on 20 th November, 2016 from Agra in Uttar Pradesh. Using a variety of designs vetted by technical institutions, local materials and trained masons, carefully selected beneficiaries, who were homeless or living in 0,1,2, kuchcha room with kuchcha roof and kutcha walls, are building the finest quality homes with the enhanced unit cost of nearly Rs. 1.5 lakh through convergence.


    In partnership with the State Governments, the challenge of completing 51 lakh Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin) homes by March, 2018 is appearing possible. Already over 33 lakh houses are at different levels of construction and the remaining 18 lakh are also in the process of starting work after due approvals. On an average, a house is taking 4 to 8 months after actual physical start of work compared to 1 to 3 years in the past. There are negligible inclusion errors of ineligible beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin) due to three stage selection filters- use of SECC 2011 data, validation by Gram Sabha, and Geo-tagging with photos of existing house of the beneficiary using space technology. All payments are IT/DBT enabled and the beneficiaries receive it through their Bank account. This has not only brought down corruption, but also has improved the quality of houses constructed.


    So far, nearly 55,000 houses are already completed and approximately 10 lakhs are at the advanced stages of completion. States like Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Odisha and Jharkhand have done very well. Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Assam have been requested to further speed up the pace of construction. These are the major States that account for 85% of the need based construction of houses for deprived households.


    Awaasoft MIS is managing PMAY-G completely, end to end, including fund transfer and geo-tagging of houses at every stage of construction. The Rural Mason Training programme has moved forward effectively in Maharashtra, Uttrakhand, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh. Other States are also speeding up the Rural Mason Training Programme. Use of treated bamboos, fly ash bricks etc. has been taken up in many States. Beautiful homes constructed under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin) are transforming social relations of poor households in rural India. It is empowering the poor households and bridging social and economic inequality besides improving the well being of the poor. It is also generating employment on an unprecedented scale. Besides toilets and 90/95 days of wage labour under MGNREGS, provision for LPG gas connection under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana and electricity connection under Deen Dayal Upadhaya Gramin Jyoti Yojana are also being enabled. Besides this, the provision for piped drinking water, use of solar energy in remote areas etc. are also being taken up. The Ministry hopes to complete 51 lakh houses under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin) in 2017-18 and almost an equal number in 2018-19.


    <><><><><>


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494670) Visitor Counter : 241