      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Union Sports Minister Vijay Goel Felicitates Shrikanth Kidambi
      Posted On: 01 JUL 2017 2:19PM by PIB Delhi


    Ace Badminton player Shrikanth Kidambi was felicitated here today by Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs & Sports Shri Vijay Goel at his official residence. His coach Pullela Gopichand was also part of the felicitation function.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Goel congratulated Shrikanth Kidambi on his winning streak at recent International Badminton Tournaments. He said, “Srikanth’s performance has been truly exceptional and his recent wins have made the nation proud. Kidambi is Pride of India. Praising his coach, the Minister said, Gopichand has constantly given us the best players with his best coaching techniques and guidance. He said “We are committed towards development of every game and our Sports Ministry along with SAI will provide complete support to all players and support staff”.


    Shri Goel also reiterated that the Ministry’s doors are open 24x7 to provide help, support and best facilities to our sportspersons; he also stated that India must become a sports power with equal focus on every game. India has been doing well in the field of sports; from securing a place in the top 100 of the FIFA ranking in football, to winning the Kabaddi World Cup 2016 and even the Asian Hockey Champions Trophy victory in both men’s & women’s category last year.


    Ace badminton coach Pullela Gopichand thanked Shri Goel and the Sports Ministry for their continuous efforts and initiatives to boost various sports including badminton. Gopichand said, “SAI & Sports Ministry has always helped us in our endeavors and the government under leadership of Prime Minister Modi is really taking sports seriously”.


    Shrikanth Kidambi thanked shri Goel for his proactive approach to help players and encourage them not only on social media but also his efforts on ground to create sports culture across India.


    AD/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494311) Visitor Counter : 131