      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Union Ministers Vijay Goel, Prakash Javadekar and V. K. Singh flagged off Slum Yuva Daud
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2017 3:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs & Sports shri Vijay Goel here today flagged off the 11th Slum Yuva Daud with HRD Minister shri Prakash Javadekar and MoS for Ministry of External Affairs Gen.(Retd.) VK Singh. Also present in today’s Daud was Dr. Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and Mahesh Girri, MP.


    Today’s Daud started from Vijay Chowk and ended at Major Dhyanchand National Stadium. More than 3000 youth from various Delhi slums participated with tricolor in their hands. Each participant was awarded medal and certificates.


    Shri Goel interacted with the participants and himself took part in the run with the tricolor. The youngsters from various Delhi slums appreciated the Ministry’s efforts to provide them a platform like this. Addressing the participants shri Goel said his aim is to motivate the youth to work for a better tomorrow and therefore he wants them to engage in positive activities to deter them from drug abuse and criminal activities.


    Shri Goel added that his Ministry would also form mini-youth clubs in slums areas to work for the development and cleanliness of their own surroundings. He said the ministry will also organize competitions in football, volleyball etc. which would enable to spot hidden sporting talent from these slums.


    Shri Prakash Javadekar praised the initiative of Slum Yuva Daud and said, “Youth must give equal importance to studies as well as sports”. He urged the youngsters to utilise their skills for a “New India”. Gen.(Retd.) VK Singh interacted with the participants and motivated them to join the armed forces and work towards “Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat”.


    The Slum Yuva Daud is part of the Adopt Slum Campaign initiated by the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports and Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan. Total 11 Slum Yuva Runs have been organized across Delhi so far with a mammoth combined participation of about 50,000 youth.


    ***


    AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496812) Visitor Counter : 199