      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Dr Jitendra Singh lays foundation stone of Barak Hostel at JNU campus
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2017 6:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh laid the foundation stone of Barak Hostel in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus here today.
    
    During the occasion, Dr. Jitendra Singh said that it has been a long wait for today’s event to take place. He highlighted that JNU has more than 8,000 students, out of which there are more students from Northeast than any other State outside NE region. He said that last year, the Foundation Stone of a Hostel exclusively for Northeast girl students was also laid in Bangalore University.
    
    Dr. Jitendra Singh said that the focus of the Government is to bring rest of India closer to North East India. He said that the Ministry of DoNER has created “Venture Capital Fund” for the young Start-Ups and entrepreneurs, who decide to initiate an enterprise in NE region. He said that this initiative is in addition to all the incentives available for Northeast. He also emphasized upon the literacy rate of Northeast region and said that the State of Mizoram has a high literacy rate, next to Kerala.
    
    On the occasion, Dr. Jitendra Singh released a book titled ‘Fixity and Fluidity’, depicting History, Politics and Culture of North East India.
    
    Secretary, DoNER Shri Naveen Verma said that JNU is a source of satisfaction for the students because of its reputation. He said that the hostel facility has been a problem in JNU and laying of foundation stone today is an effort to bridge the gap. Shri Naveen Verma said that he is looking forward for an early completion of the hostel.
    
    Secretary, North Eastern Council (NEC) Shri Ram Muivah said that today’s event is a very big moment for JNU students in general and Northeast students in particular. He said that the NEC is funding 100% for the construction of Barak hostel, with an amount of Rs. 28.30 crore. He said that the construction of hostel will be completed within 3 years’ time and will accommodate 400 students, out of which it will be available for 200 boys and 200 girls. Shri Ram Muivah said that out of 400 vacancies, 320 will be available for NE students and 80 for students from rest of the States.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496951) Visitor Counter : 138