      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Union Ministers Vijay Goel and Rajyavardhan Rathore inaugurate newly created 10-mts Rifle and Pistol Mini Range at Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range, Tughlakabad, New Delhi
      Posted On: 27 JUL 2017 5:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel and Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore(Retd.) here today inaugurated 10-meter Rifle and Pistol Shooting Range at Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range, Tughlakabad, New Delhi.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Vijay Goel said that more utilization of stadiums and other infrastructure for the promotion of sports is aim of his ministry. He said, the newly created 10 M Mini range is primarily for the purpose to train the basics of shooting to the new comers of any age who want to pursue competitive shooting sports. He said now after introduction of this new manual electronic 05 point target system, they will be able to attain the bench mark level and thereafter can be shifted to computerized electronic target system meant for elite shooting training/competitions as per ISSF norms.


    The Minister said this will not only increase the number of trainees manifold but also make the shooting event popular among the aspiring shooters. This new introductory training at to Mini Range will open the gate for grass root shooters who want to achieve excellence in competitive sports.


    Col. Rathore congratulating Sports minister said it is a great initiative to popularize the game of shooting. He said this will help youngsters to take up shooting and boost India’s Olympic prospects.


    Three options of daily, monthly and yearly membership are available to general public at the rate of Rs. 200, 3,000 and 36,000 respectively.


    Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range is a World Class Shooting Ranges with state-of- the ad facilities spread over 72 acres green area in the South Delhi. It was built in 1982 during 9th Asian Games and named after Maharaja Dr. Karni Singh Ji of Bikaner who was first Arjuna Awardee in shooting (1961). It is one of the best Shooting Ranges of the world and caters to the requirement of Shooters from grass root to elite level through various Sports Promotional Schemes of Sports Authority of India (SAI).


    ****


    AD/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497449) Visitor Counter : 25