      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Nagpur’s metro, broad gage Railway, e-vehicles bringing innovative model of urban mobility. – Union Minister of Road Transport, Highways & Shipping Sh. Nitin Gadkari
      
      Green Mobility’ theme of urban mobility India conference at Nagpur aims to reduce environmental problems - Union Minister of Housing, Urban Affairs (I/C) Sh. Hardeep Puri.
      
      Comprensive & end-to-end solution are need of hour for transport management - Chief Minister Sh. Devendra Fadnavis
      
      11th edition on Urban Mobility India Conference inaugurated at Nagpur
      Posted On: 02 NOV 2018 6:16PM by PIB Mumbai


    In last 4 Years, Nagpur has witnessed transformation in urban transport sdctor. Nagpur’s metro is innovative model, which drives 60% power from solar energy. The e-taxi project, methanol bus are other initiative which were started for the first time in country form Nagpur. Such mass rapid transit system based on electricity is need of hour, opined Union Minister of Road Transport, Highways & Shipping Sh. Nitin Gadkari today in Nagpur. Sh. Gadkari was speaking on the occasion of inaugural session of 11 th edition of Urban India Mobility Conference organized by Minister of Housing & Urban affairs, Institute of Urban Transpor & Maha Metro . Union Housing, Urban Affairs (I/C) Sh. Hardeep S Puri, Chief Minister of Maharashtra,Sh. Devendra Fadnavis, Guardian minister Sh. C. Bawankule, Ambassador of France to India Alexander Ziegler, Ambassador of Germany, Dr.Martin Ney, Chief Managing Director, Maha Metro, Nagpur, Dr. Brijesh Dixit, , Secretary, Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, Sh. D. S. Mishra, were prominently present on this occasion. The conference is being held from 2 to 4 November in Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines, Nagpur.


    Stressing upon the need of alternative, cost effective & indigenous fuel, Sh. Gadkri said that Jatropha, sugarcane bagasse & other agricultural waste can be a good source of bio-fuel. Through his Ministry, 20 thousand kilometer river-length is being converted into water ways. Mumbai to Goa-sea cruise & Ro-Ro services in other waterways, are some evident examples of waterway transport, he informed on this occasion.


    Sh. Hardeep Puri praised Nagpur city’s innovative project to introduce e-taxis & buses for urban transport. Theme of UMI conference ‘Green Mobility’ is in resonance with Nagpur’s Urban transport as it is reducing environmental pollution, he underlined. He also appreciated the new initiative in transport sector, started by Sh. Nitin Gadkari in country as well as in Nagpur. He opined that urban mobility is the key-driver of economy. He informed that in near future, few stretches of Delhi Metro will be inaugrated so that total length of Metro become 350 km.


    Chief Minister of Maharashtra also inaugurated ‘Hackthon’ on occasion of inaugural session of UMI. He advocated for competitive & end to end solutions for lowering environmental pollution & offering traveler a comfortable experience resulting into effective transport management.


    Prior to the conference, an exhibition was also inaugurated by Union Minister of Housing, Urban Affairs (I/C) Sh. Hardeep Puri. Inaugural session was attended by many professionals, academicians & experts from transport industry. The two day conference will be attended by 1000 delegates including 100 international delegates.


    ***


    S. Rai/D. Wankhede/Moundekar/Awasthi

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551745) Visitor Counter : 326