      Ministry of Textiles

      Reach out to the MSME players in textiles sector, ensure that they know of 12-point package announced by the PM: Union Textiles Minister
      
      Textiles Minister seeks suggestions from TEXPROCIL for technology upgradation in cotton textiles sector
      
      Textiles Minister presents TEXPROCIL Export Awards 2017 – 18

      Posted On: 03 NOV 2018 9:27PM by PIB Mumbai

    The Union Minister for Textiles, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani has exhorted Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council (TEXPROCIL) to reach out to the MSME players in the sector who constitute 35% of the Council's membership, so that they know that banking institutions have been given a mere 59 minutes to give in-principle approval for loans to small traders and organizations. She expressed the hope that TEXPROCIL will play an important role in giving suggestions in cotton textile environment, as regards the 6,000 crore rupees package announced by the Prime Minister yesterday, for technology upgradation in MSME sector. The Minister was speaking at the presentation of Export Awards 2017 – 18 of the Council, in Mumbai today.


    She said that as the Prime Minister has reiterated time and again, the textile industry is an inclusive industry, one that takes the journey forward from farm to fabric to fashion to foreign. She said that the Government's decision to increase the price of fair average quality grade cotton seed in this cotton season by 28% shows its commitment to facilitate the cotton sector from farm onwards to exports.


    Smt. Irani said that Indian industry has been known as the harbinger of change and technology innovation. Stating that the Export Awards are a celebration of excellence, growth and innovation, the Minister congratulated the Council for celebrating people as well, by instituting the award for organizations generating the highest employment. She said that while the sector employs 50 million people, it also uniquely benefits close to 6 million farmers across the nation. She said that the awards are a celebration also of the contribution of the Indian farmer.


    Expressing joy at the 26% growth of cotton textiles this year, the Minister stated that this also sets a benchmark to double the growth next year, despite domestic and international challenges. She said that TEXPROCIL has grown in both conventional and unconventional markets and has propagated growth not only for the big players, but also for the SME participants. This should be a source of inspiration for other EPCs too, said the Minister.


    Smt. Irani said that the Government engages in constant conversations with farmers and industry at large, through institutions such as Cotton Corporation of India, besides enlisting participation of bodies such as TEXPROCIL.


    The annual Awards are a recognition of the role played by exporters. Fifty six awards in thirty two categories, including the coveted Platinum trophy for the highest global exports, were given this year. The Minister gave away awards for excellence in exports of yarns, fabrics and home textiles as well as the newly instituted Award for highest employment generation.


    She said that the Ministry will work shoulder to shoulder with TEXPROCIL in ensuring its goals. She also congratulated the award winners for their wonderful performance.


    Chairman, TEXPROCIL, Shri Ujwal Lahoti; Vice Chairman, TEXPROCIL, Dr. K. V. Srinivasan and prominent members of the industry attended the event. The award presentation ceremony was followed by a vibrant cultural performance.


    ***


    DJM/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551830) Visitor Counter : 402