      Ministry of Finance

      Significant Development in the Field of Minting of Coins in the country
      Posted On: 02 NOV 2018 6:22PM by PIB Mumbai


    An interactive workshop on creating word class technology knowledge bank on Art & Engraving was held at IGM, Mumbai on 29.10.2018 under the chairmanship of Shri Ajai Kumar Srivastav, Director Technical, security Printing and Minting Corpoartion of India Ltd., a Mini-ratna PSU under the Ministry of Finance, Government of India.


    This workshop was organised by India government Mint, Mumbai with an intention of knowledge transfer and creating technology awareness in the field of Art and Engraving to be adopted by engravers of various mints in India. Making of any coin or medals begins with the creations of models of the respective design and hence deliberations were focused on use of right clay and Plaster-of-Paris (PO)) for creating the outstanding design models.


    Welcoming the participants, Shri R. Haripanth, GM India govt Mint, Mumbai outlined the need for the workshop. Shri Ajai Srivastav, Director, Technical, SPMCIL, shared his experience and knowledge of the Mint of Japan, which he had visited recently. The design aspects of models were explained by Prof. Shri Madhukr Wanjari, HOD (Sculpture) of Sir J.J. School of Art, Mumbai. The use of correct POP for creating excellent models with consistent and sharp images was elucidated by Mr. Rajan Nandwana, Managing Director, M/s Kalabhai Karson ltd., Mumbai.


    This interactive workshop paved the way for acquiring the necessary skills for creating superlative currency or commemorative coins at par with world standards. It has immensely helped the engravers of IGM, Mumbai and Kolkata to understand state-of-art technologies and processes. The engravers exchanged their ideas and raised pertinent questions regarding the features, relief and the raw material characteristics. These exchanges will help the mints to improve and design and produce world class commemorative and circulating coins.


    ***


    DJM/KN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551747) Visitor Counter : 510