      AYUSH

      Lifestyle related disorders can be prevented by the practice of Yoga- Shripad Naik
      
      Two Day International Conference on Yoga inaugurated in Goa

      Posted On: 12 NOV 2018 3:28PM by PIB Mumbai

    Panaji, November 12, 2018


    Union Minister of State (I/C), Ministry of AYUSH Shri Shripad Naik said that, Yoga is basically focus to change the lifestyle. So, the lifestyle related disorders are easily prevented and managed. Experts of Yoga see daily practice as beneficial in itself, leading to improved health, emotional well-being, mental clarity and joy in living. Shri Naik was speaking at the inauguration of two day International Conference on Yoga for Public Health, at Panaji today. Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, Founder, Art of Living, Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH Shri Rajesh Kotecha, Advisor, Ministry of AUSH, Dr D C Katoch, Additional Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH shri P K Pathak were also present on this occasion.


    Western countries are showing much interest towards Yoga. In USA alone, nearly 20 million people are practicing Yoga and this number is increasing average by 5 percent every year. The USA military training has adopted Yoga in its training curriculum. Many other countries like United Kingdom, European countries, South Eastern countries are practicing Yoga. Several modern medical institutes have adopted Yoga as an alternative treatment for many of the disorders. In our country also, the system of Yoga is gradually gaining popularity as a best mode of alternative therapy to the modern medical system, he further said.


    System of Yoga is growing further and becoming more popular nowadays, attributable to increasing lifestyle related disorders and non-communicable diseases. Yoga, along with other drugless systems, is probably the only answer for preventing NCDs. The speciality of this system is that they can get along with any other systems of health care. The System of Yoga is having a potential role in the public health system of our country and that’s why the theme of the conference is very appropriate, he added.


    He further said that, government is committed for the development of AYUSH including Yoga. Under the Ministry of AYUSH central schemes and centrally sponsored schemes for the development of Yoga are there. The flagship programme, ‘National AYUSH Mission’ also have considerable component of Yoga in its various programmes. Ministry had constituted a’ National Board for Promotion and Development of Yoga’ that will help people to adopt Yoga in a more meaningful manner. This conference will help the dream of making Yoga a house-hold name a reality, not only in India but across the globe, he asserted.


    Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, in his address, appreciated the work of Ministry of AYUSH in spreading Yoga. Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, Shri Rajesh Kotecha, in his address elaborated the theme of the conference. 600 delegates from 50 countries are participated in the conference.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552464) Visitor Counter : 317
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi