      Ministry of Defence

      Major boost to firepower of Indian army
      
      State-of-the-Art Guns dedicated to the Nation by Defence Minister

      Posted On: 09 NOV 2018 3:18PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai- 09 NOV 2018


    Marking a major milestone towards capacity building and capability enhancement of the Indian Army, Defence Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, today dedicated the globally combat proven M777 A2 Ultra Light Howitzers, K-9 Vajra-Tracked Self Propelled Guns and 6x6 Field Artillery Tractors to the service of the Nation.


    The Dedication Ceremony was held at Devlali Field Firing Ranges and was attended by Minister of State for Defence, Dr Subhash Bhamre, Chief of Army Staff, General Bipin Rawat and dignitaries from the Government of USA and South Korea. Senior Serving Officers of the Indian Army and Ministry of Defence, representatives of Manufacturing Industries were also present.


    The 155mm, 39 Calibre Ultra light Howitzers have been procured from USA under Government to Government Foreign Military Sales and will be assembled in India by BAE Systems in partnership with Mahindra Defence. The Gun System is versatile, light weight and can be heli-lifted, thereby providing the much needed flexibility in deployment in various terrains. The Howitzer is in service in the US, Canadian, Australian and Some other armies of the world. It has proven its mettle in difficult areas of Afghanistan and Iraq.


    The first ten K9 Vajra 155mm/52 calibre guns have been imported from Hanwha Techwin of South Korea in Semi Knocked Down state and have been assemble by L&T in India. The balance 90 Guns will be largely manufactured in India with some major assemblies coming from South Korea. Its induction will give a huge fillip to the firepower capability of Indian Army on our western borders.


    The 6x6 Field Artillery Tractor has been indigenously developed by Ashok Leyland and will provide the much awaited replacement for the ageing fleet of artillery gun towing vehicles. Dedication of these equipment to the nation also give a major impetus to ‘Make In India’ initiative of the government.


    The event included an impressive display of equipment and firepower by the guns of the indian artillery. Also on display were indigenous Gun Systems/Surveillance & Target Acquisition Systems that have been recently introduced in service.


    ***


    Source- PIB Defence Wing (Nashik)


    BBP/VSJ/NS/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552297) Visitor Counter : 669
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi