      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Averno an adventurous, realistic and mythical story about maturation and anthropology: Marcos Loayza
      
      Unlike Indian films, Bolivian movies are much shorter, darker and mystical
      
      Camera movements in Indian films stand out in capturing every angle of situation and drama
      
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2018 5:30PM by PIB Mumbai


    It is said that everyone has one’s own set of inner fears and worries. To overcome those, one needs to get out of one’s comfort zone and venture out. For some people, this overstepping comes in the form of journeys where they plunge themselves into hitherto unknown territories. The movie ‘ Averno’ showcased in the World Panorama section of International Film Festival of India, Goa talks about such an adventurous trip by a person, to a place named Averno in Andes mountains where the inhabitants believe that the dead coexist with the living. In this dangerous journey to the underworld, where myth and reality are intertwined, he has to defeat the worst of his enemies and the greatest of his fears.


    The Director of ‘Averno’ , Mr. Marcos Loayza was at IFFI today, to speak about his film. He said that his movie is an adventurous, realistic and mythical story that talks about maturation and anthropology. It is about the struggles faced by the protagonist Tupah, a young shoe shiner who sets out on an impossible journey to save his uncle. “It took a great deal of time for the movie to get materialized. Getting the right people, who are knowledgeable about the story and culture of Bolivia, to play the characters was a huge challenge. I am curious to know how the film is going to be received in India”, the director said.


    Reflecting on the difference between Bolivian and Indian movies, Mr. Marcos said that Bolivian movies are much shorter, darker and mystical with less emphasis on music. He appreciated the camera movements in Indian films which capture every angle of situation and drama. Replying to a question, he said that his next movie will be about Greek mythology and culture.


    Backgrounder


    Averno is a Spanish language film directed by Marcos Loayza. The story revolves around Averno, a place where the Andean inhabitants believe that the dead coexist with the living and where everything finds its opposite face. Many have heard of it but very few have seen. The protagonist of the film, Tupah, a young shoe shiner while embarking upon a dangerous journey through the underworld tries to rescue his uncle. As myth and reality get endlessly intertwined, Tupah has to defeat the worst of his enemies and the greatest of his fears.


    Marcos Loayza studied architecture in La Paz and attended The International School of Cinema and Video of San Antonio de los Baños, Cuba. Averno is his seventh film & it had its Bolivian premiere in January 2018.


    ***


    ED/DJM/DW/BSN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553895) Visitor Counter : 224
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi