      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Getting audience and funds are the two challenges before the documentary film makers: Usha Deshpande
      
      There should be a dedicated channel for documentaries: Shri Sanskar Desai

      Posted On: 24 NOV 2018 5:19PM by PIB Mumbai

    Getting audience and funds are the two challenges before the documentary film makers and efforts are being made to overcome these problems said President, IDPA-Indian Documentary Producers Association, Ms. Usha Deshpande while talking to media at Media centre today. General Secretary, IDPA, Sanskar Desai was also present.


    IDPA is endeavouring to provide exposure to documentary film-makers by organising film screenings, approaching film clubs for screening, negotiating with television channels for slots and participating in film festivals across the country. It also organises competitions, workshops, seminars, masterclasses etc said Ms Deshpande.


    Talking about Open Forum which is going to be organised from 25-27 November for an hour starting at 1:30 during IFFI 2018, Deshpande said the themes will be:

     1. Director’s take on biopics - how much fact and how much fiction is there in it?
     2. Is technique over-riding content in today’s film-making and its impact.
     3. Cellphones are making each one of us into film-makers. Is this medium capable of graduating into way of making proper films?

    IDPA is a non-profit organisation established in 1956 and is India ’s single largest association of producers of documentaries, animation films, advertisement films and TV programmes. It is also facilitating the documentary makers by providing them with regular updates, standardised rate cards and by settling disputes. IDPA, as a Trust, is part of the movement trying to take further legacy of documentary film makers. It has history of distinguished Presidents like Aruna Raje, Mike Pandey and Vijaya Mulay, informed Sanskar Desai.


    It has organised film festivals and instituted awards to deserving talent . IDPA has been associated with Mumbai International Film Festival (MIFF) since its inception in 1988. Currently, the membership of IDPA is open to any Indian filmmaker who makes documentaries, short commercials, corporate films and animation films. said Shri Desai.


    Shri Desai told that IDPA has a slot on DD National on Saturdays at 10 am. for documentaries. Screenings are also arranged in Mumbai and at other places to promote documentary movement.” IDPA has proposed and is persuading for a dedicated channel for documentaries. It also curates packages as per the needs of the various festivals.


    Backgrounder


    Usha Deshpande, an alumni of screenplay writing course of FTII, is an independent producer, director and writer. Her film ‘Khayal’ on Hindustani classical music is quite popular.


    Sanskar Desai, a Mumbai based filmmaker, scriptwriter, theatre person, singer and a poet, has been actively associated with Mumbai International Film Festival (MIFF) & International Film Festival of India (IFFI) since many years. He is General Secretary of IDPA and his film ‘Stepwells of Gujarat’ was widely received.


    ***


    ED/NS/MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553701) Visitor Counter : 347
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi
    
    
    

3.