      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      It is a real honour for me to be in India to present my film at this prestigious festival: Julien Landais at IFFI 2018
      
      The director of the opening film of IFFI 2018 – The Aspern Papers – was speaking at a press conference held by IFFI
      
      The Aspern Papers tells a story of obsession, grandeur lost and dreams of Byronic adventures
      
      The screening of the opening film will also be its World Premiere at IFFI 2018
      
      Posted On: 19 NOV 2018 7:10PM by PIB Mumbai


    GOA, 19 th NOVEMBER 2018: As cine lovers await with bated breath for the official opening of the 49th International Film Festival of India (IFFI), the international star cast and crew of the opening film of the festival – ‘The Aspern papers’ –made their presence felt at the press conference held this evening by IFFI.


    From among the cast and crew of the film, Mr. Julien Landais (Director) was present with his actors Mr. Nicolas Hau, MsBarbara Meier and MsLois Robbins .


    While addressing the media at the press conference, the Festival Director said, “We are thoroughly delighted to have the cast and crew of The Aspern Papers among us. And what better way to start the 49th edition of IFFI than with a World Premiere! A premiere which speaks for itself, a premiere which will showcase the nuances of cinema, filmmaking, acting, creativity and the way forward. The film kickstarts our whole journey for eight days and it should be a journey which all of us will love to remember. It is a great honour and a privilege to have you here. I thank the cast and crew of The Aspern Papersfor coming to India, coming to Goa, coming to IFFI, and for giving us a great brand value in the international community. Namaskar, welcome to India”


    Julien Landais, the Director of The Aspern Papers, said, “It is a real honour for me to be in India to present my film at this prestigious festival. My filmis an adaptation of a famous novella by Henry James, which is set in Venice in the late 19th century. I felt like it was the right subject for my first feature and fit in the incredible actors to embody these special characters. So I’m very happy to be here with my team.”


    One of the actors of the film, Lois Robbins was also present at the press conference. She said, “I just want to say howthrilled I am to be here. It is my first time in India. It is a beautiful country;Goa is fantastic and thank you so much for having us all. Shooting The Aspern Papers was an experience I don’t think I will ever have again as an actor for so many reasons. Firstly, it was an extraordinary cast led by an exceptional director who had a beautiful vision for the film. Just the costumes alone, from the Dolce and Gabbana couture archives, were some of the most beautiful things I will ever wear in my life. It was quite exceptional to work with Jonathan (Rhys-Myers), Poppy (Delevingne), Nicolas (Hau), Barbara (Meier) and MorganePolanski.”


    Narrating her experience while shooting the film, Lois further said, “It was a lot of fun on the very first day of the shooting of the film. It was very hot in Venice. And I had on a very heavy cape, a hat and gloves and we were shooting in a gondola. For every take, I had to take my gloves on and off. The costume people couldn’t come inside the gondola with me. So for every take, Jonathan would get into the gondola and adjust the gloves and the cape for me. And I was swooning. He is quite handsome. That might have been my favourite day of shooting.”


    The Aspern Papers tells a story of obsession, grandeur lost and dreams of Byronic adventures.The filmis an adaptation of a famous novella by Henry James based on the letters Percy Bysshe Shelley wrote to Mary Shelley's stepsister Claire Clairmont. The film stars Golden Globe winnerMr.Jonathan Rhys Meyers (lead actor), Golden Globe nominated actressMs.Joely Richardson (lead actress), her mother – six time Oscar nominee and Academy Award winner Vanessa Redgrave, Ms. Julia Robins (actress), Ms.Morgane Polanski (actress ) - daughter of Roman Polanski, and Mr. Nicolas Hau(actor).


    Synopsis of TheAspern Papers:


    Set in Venice in the late 19th century, it tells the story of an American editor determined to get his hands on the letters his icon, the Romantic poet Jeffrey Aspern, wrote to his beautiful lover and muse, Juliana Bordereau. Juliana lives in a Venetian palazzo with her niece Miss Tina, who she seems to control and Morton tries to manipulate. But when the ambitious adventurer trifles with Miss Tina’s affections she learns to see through his scheme.


    The film was shot where Henry James actually wrote it - on original locations in Venice. James Ivory, an old India hand and a recent Academy Award winner is one of the Executive Producers of the film.


    The 49th International Film Festival of India (IFFI) will open with the World Premiere of ‘The Aspern Papers’ with international star cast.


    The 49th International Film Festival of India begins on Tuesday, 20 November 2018 and ends onWednesday, 28 November, 2018, in Panaji, Goa.


    ***


    EMD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553222) Visitor Counter : 460
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi