      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      SPECIAL DAY AT IFFI PROMOTES JHARKHAND AS A FILM MAKING DESTINATION
      Posted On: 24 NOV 2018 4:59PM by PIB Mumbai


    It was a day dedicated for Jharkhand at the 49th International Film Festival of India. The scenic state bestowed with rugged hills, dense forests and mesmerising waterfalls got a much-needed impetus as a film shooting destination when dignitaries came together to celebrate ‘Jharkhand Day’ today at IFFI.


    Governor of Goa, Ms. Mridula Sinha; Shri Amar Kumar Bauri, Tourism Minister, Government of Jharkhand; Shri Amit Khare, Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting; Shri Sunil Kumar Barnwal, Secretary, Department of Information and Public Relations, Jharkhand; Shri Rahul Sharma, Secretary, Department of Tourism, Arts and Sports, Jharkhand; and Shri Sheo Pratap Singh. Tourism Secretary, Government of Goa participated in the special evening celebrations at hotel Cidade de Goa in Panaji this evening. Cultural troops from Jharkhand performed indigenous dance forms like Paika, Mardana Jhumar, Seraikela Chhau and Domkach accompanying the tunes of mandar and bansuri, showcasing the rich cultural legacy of the region.


    Film buffs thronging IFFI are getting a glimpse of the art, culture and cuisine of the Jharkhand through the multiple stalls promoting the State and its tourism initiatives. Handicrafts and cuisine of the state presented at the festival venues are attracting lots of people. A recipient of the Special Mention Award for promoting filmmaking in 2016, Jharkhand has rightfully been chosen as the State in Focus at IFFI this year. This is the first time that IFFI has started a State in Focus segment. Six films either shot in Jharkhand under the Jharkhand Government Film Promotion Programme, or made in the language/dialect of the state are being screened during the Festival. The films are: ‘Begum Jaan’ (2017), ‘Ranchi Diaries’ (2017), ‘A Death in the Gunj’ (2016), ‘Mor Gaon Mor Desh’ (2018), ‘Ajab Singh ki Gajab Kahani’ (2017), and ‘Panchlait’ (2017). ‘MSD: The untold story’ (2016), the biopic on former Indian Cricket team captain M.S. Dhoni is also being screened at Open Air Screening venue of IFFI.


    Jharkhand had been captured multiple times on celluloid by great filmmakers including Satyajit Ray and Ritwik Ghatak when it was part of Bihar. But after attaining statehood, this scenic landscape seems to have slightly gone off the movie location map for some time. Under the able leadership of Chief Minister Raghubar Das, the state is all set to capture back its lost glory in the arena of cinema making. Since the Jharkhand State Film Policy released in 2015, the State is steadily moving ahead in creating awareness among film-makers about its potential for film-making. Through these focussed celebrations at IFFI, the state has been firmly put in limelight for both the film-making industry as well as tourism. It is hoped these efforts will help create opportunities for the local artists and help convert the state into a tourist destination.


    #Jharkhand is the State of focus at #IFFI2018. So what better day than #JharkhandDay to sample their culture and food right here from Goa!
    So see you there! pic.twitter.com/ekrHFn0EzH

    — PIB in Goa (@PIB_Panaji) November 24, 2018

    ED/DJM/BSN


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553700) Visitor Counter : 539
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi