      Ministry of Railways

      Western Railway Tightens Security at Stations
      
      Various Measures Adopted To Increase the Security of Passengers

      Posted On: 22 NOV 2018 6:35PM by PIB Mumbai

    Western Railway is leaving no stone unturned to enhance the security arrangements at railway premises therefore safety norms and tightens security has been adopted at entire Mumbai suburban Railway stations.


    125 commandos have been trained by Force I, MH and being deployed as Quick Response Teams (QRTs) at sensitive stations. 548 RPF Constables staff are deployed 24x7 at all suburban stations of W.Rly. They are assisted by 329 MSF personnel including 97 lady staff. In addition, GRP is also deployed at the above stations. 1128 CCTV cameras have been installed over Mumbai division, which are monitored 24x7 by trained RPF staff.


    A proposal for outsourcing/monitoring/ analyzing of CCTV cameras from experienced and skilled personnel is also under process. Bomb Detection equipment have been procured and 5 staff have been trained in handling the same. Five X-Ray Baggage Scanners have been procured and installed at Churchgate, Mumbai Central, Bandra (T), Borivali and Surat stations in September 2018.


    Approximately, 8500 bags are scanned daily by these X-Ray Baggage Scanner machines which are manned by RPF staff. Bullet proof Morchas have been provided at important stations wherein RPF commandos are deployed with advance weaponry. Dog Squad comprising of 10 trained sniffer dogs have been deployed for random checking on suburban stations and trains. Helpline No.182 has been set-up in RPF control room which is monitored round the clock by RPF staff for redressal of passenger grievances relating to security.


    A new 182 Mobile App for passenger security is going to be launched shortly. Body worn cameras have been procured and provided to RPF staff. Daily collection of intelligence relating to terrorist threats by SIB units is being done with the help of Local Police, GRP and IB. Intelligence collection and exchange of database of criminals, modus operandi with State police and GRP has been ensured. In addition to the above, frequent announcement through PA system and TV displays are being done round the clock for creating awareness among passengers.


    These safety & security mechanism applied by view of past experience of the terrorist attacks on 26/11/2008 at various places in Mumbai,said Shri Ravinder Bhakar – Chief Public Relations Officer of Western Railway.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553601) Visitor Counter : 184