      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      NFAI book ‘Women In Indian Cinema’ launched at IFFI2018
      Posted On: 21 NOV 2018 11:39AM by PIB Mumbai


    Union Minister of State for Information &Broadcasting and Youth & Sports Affairs Col. Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore launched a prestigious publication ‘Women in Indian Cinema today during the glittering inaugural ceremony of 49 th International Film Festival of India, Goa. In the presence of Smt. MridulaSinha, Governor of Goa, AmitKhare, Secretary I&B, and Sadhana Rout, Director General, Publication Division.


    A joint initiative of NFAI and Publication Division, the pictorial book traces the story of women on the silver screen in Indian Cinema.


    The book titled “Women in Indian Cinema” discusses an interesting aspect of Indian cinema by visually traversing the story of “Indian Women”, as it has unfolded on the big screen. With chapters divided into themes like "Myths’ being Retold", "The Social Messengers", "Many ‘Battles’ to be won”, “Uncanny’ is the Name" etc., the book looks at a wide range of roles being portrayed to showcase different ideas of womanhood.


    In his foreword, the Minister writes, ‘The position of women in society is always one of the most deliberated topics in India. It is interesting to observe how, over the years, Indian cinema has presented women and womanhood on screen. The importance of films in portraying in shifting roles of women over the years can’t be overemphasized. Therefore it is heartening to note that Publication Division and NFAI have synergized there expertise of preserving and promoting the ‘idea of India and its various facets’ to bring out this beautiful book on various shades of portrayal of women in Indian celluloid.I extend my heartiest congratulations to DPD and NFAI for their novel initiative.’


    PrakashMagdum, director NFAI said, ‘This book is tribute to the women in Indian cinema. Through the pictorial presentation using the images from NFAI’s collection, we have explored various aspects and themes across many languages and eras. I am sure film lovers across the world will appreciate rich legacy of Indian cinema coming alive through this book.’


    In recent past, cinemas across various regions of India have mirrored changing social and economic realities of emerging India, the coming years may witness more such things on screen. One may expect not just woman-centric features, but a more complex cultural fabric accommodating important aspects of Indian womanhood in Indian cinemas in near future.


    The book is jointly complied by PrakashMagdum, Director NFAI and Binayak Bhattacharya, Film Historian NFAI. Published by Publication Division the book will soon available for sale.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553397) Visitor Counter : 277
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi