      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Indian audience celebrates film as an art: Director Ram
      
      Cinema should be categorised only as good cinema and bad cinema: Lijo Jose Pellissery
      
      
      Story of the film ran well ahead of the times: Pratima Joshi
      
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2018 3:01PM by PIB Mumbai


    Three directors of Feature films in Indian Panorama at the 49 th International Film Festival of India addressed a press conference in Panaji, Goa today November 26. 2018. Ram, Director of ‘ Peranbu’ , Lijo Jose Pellissery, Director of ‘ Ee. Ma. Yau. ’ and Pratima Joshi, Director of ‘ Aamhi Doghi ’ participated in the press conference.


    Peranbu , the Tamil film directed by Ram got much accolades from a packed audience during its Indian premiere at IFFI yesterday. Elaborating on the genesis of his movie, Ram said that the story is about a spastic child and the parenting issues associated with her. "The screening of Perambu at IFFI was a very thrilling experience. I find that the Indian audience is very mature and celebrates film as an art. Their level of understanding of films and film art is far ahead compared to European or Chinese audience”, he said.


    The director also recollected an incident from his personal life when he met with the parent of a differently abled child. A question raised by that parent “ Nature has created everyone differently but treats everyone equally; how cruel is it?”- formed the baseline of this touching emotional movie, he further added. Replying to a question on the selection of complicated themes, Ram said that he likes to create movies that challenge him.


    Lijo Jose Pellissery said that cinema should not be categorised as regional and national or commercial and parallel. It should be categorised just as good cinema and bad cinema; that will be easier for film makers and audience, he added. On the role of music in his film ‘ Ee. Ma. Yau. ’, Lijo said that though music score is used only in the last 30 to 40 seconds of the film, the ambient sound is treated more or less like music. "Whatever sound is there in cinema is all atmospheric and part of the ambience", he said. Replying to a question, he described that long-shot sequences used in cinema can ensure that the emotions and entire array of events are not missed out in the scene.


    An actor and costume designer turned director, Ms. Pratima Joshi said that she does not believe in the oft-repeated statement that “women themselves are the enemies of women”. ‘ Aamhi Doghi ’ touches upon the bonding between a young woman and her ‘not so old’ step mom. She added that though the film is based on a story written in 1973, the subject runs well ahead of the times. Replying to a question on choosing the right actors for character realization, she said that some faces appeared in her mind right at the time she started reading the story.


    Backgrounder


    Peranbu


    ‘Peranbu’ is a Tamil language film written & directed by Mr. Ram starring the famous actor Mammootty. ‘Peranbu’ depicts an intense emotional drama focusing on the relationship between father and daughter. The film had its world premiere at the International Film Festival Rotterdam and Asian premiere at Shanghai International Film Festival. Ram’s second film ‘ Thanga Meengal ’ bagged three awards in categories of Best Feature Film in Tamil, Best Child Artist, Best Lyrics category at the 61st National Film Awards. ‘ Peranbu ’ is his fourth film.


    Ee. Ma. Yau.


    Ee. Ma. Yau. is a stunning satire on death and how it affects human lives. Set in Chellanam, a coastal village in Kerala, the film kicks off with the death of an old man named Vavachan Mestri. Vavachan, a master mason belonging to the Latin Catholic community in Kerala, shares memories of his father’s burial with his son Eesy. He expresses the desire for a grand funeral for himself which Eesy promises. After Vavachan’s sudden death, Eesy tries to arrange a good funeral for him but her effort is met with unpredictable obstacles and reactions from different quarters. Subsequent events bring the fore conflict within the family and the deep ethical crisis simmering in the community. The film's title is an abbreviation of "Eesho Mariyam Yauseppe", which in some Christian communities, is a prayer whispered in the ears of the deceased. Lijo Jose Pellissery won the Best Director Award at the 48th Kerala State Film Awards for Ee.Ma.Yau.


    Aamhi Doghi


    Aamhi Doghi by debut director Pratima Joshi works because of its well-established characters. The film, based on Gauri Deshpande’s story Paus Ala Motha, is not just a story of two women. Pratima Joshi succeeds in creating a film that offers a fresh outlook at relations and how they shape a person. It also tells you that someone’s personality should not be the benchmark for being friends with the person. Raised in a household without the presence of her mother and a father who is away most of the times, Savitri Sardesai learns to be practical in her approach towards life. But equations change when her father remarries and brings home Savi’s stepmom Amala.


    ***


    ED/DJM/DW/MC/BSN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553867) Visitor Counter : 483
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi