      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Directors of non-feature films in Indian Panorama of IFFI meet the press
      Film captures the lives of four Launda Naach performers in Bihar: Jainendra Dost
      
      An effort to portray the impact of divorce on children: Prasanna Ponde
      
      Had no intention of making this documentary: Suhas Jahagirdar
      Posted On: 27 NOV 2018 8:55PM by PIB Mumbai


    Directors of three non-feature films in Indian Panorama section of the International Film Festival of India addressed a press conference today in Panaji, Goa. Jainendra Dost Director of ‘Naach Bhikari Naach’, Prasanna Ponde, Director of ‘Silent Scream’ and Suhas Jahagirdar, Director of ‘Yes I am Mauli’ attended the press conference.


    Addressing the media, Mr. Jainendra Dost said that his film captures the lives of four Launda Naach performers, originally a part of Bhikhari Thakur’s legendary Naach troupe in Bihar. While researching for the film it was revealed that even dance forms in India have a class and caste divide. He also shared the difficulties faced while shooting for the film in village. “ Though everywhere we met with problems, the attitude of the villagers was heart touching. They supported us with open mind”, he said.


    Prasanna Ponde, Director of ‘Silent Scream’ said that his film tries to portray the impact of divorce on children and the inner conflict it cause them. “After certain period of time and witnessing the emotional turmoil of their children, some parents even think that the divorce should have been avoided. The film is targeted at the parents but the theme presented may touch children too”, he said.


    Narrating the experience of turning a personal experience on cell phone to a film, Mr. Suhas Jahagirdar said that had no intention of making this documentary. “ When I proceeded on the spiritual journey from Alandi to Pandharpur, many exciting things come up in between and they are all recorded in mobile. After coming back, the videos are shown to some friends and get a good reception. It was upon their suggestion that those videos are edited together to make a film”, he said.


    Backgrounder


    Naach Bhikari Naach


    Naach Bhikari Naach directed by Jainendra Dost and Shilpi Gulati captures the lives of four Launda Naach performers, originally a part of Bhikhari Thakur’s legendary Naach troupe in Bihar. 'Launda Naach' is the traditional folk theatre from Bihar, India where male artists often cross dress as women and perform on stage all night. It weaves in the journey of a folk tradition that along with song, dance and drama, includes the practice of female impersonation by male actors. As the protagonists narrate their life stories, they provide an insight into the politics and aesthetics of the works of Bhikhari Thakur - also known as the Shakespeare of Bhojpuri.


    Jainendra Dost


    Doctoral scholar Jainendra Kumar is pursuing his research at the School of Arts and Aesthetics, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU).


    Silent Scream


    Silent Scream is the story of a boy who gets caught up in a custody battle between his divorced parents. The parents are so caught up with their own problems that they don’t even notice the emotional turmoil their son is going through, and what does the child want. In the bargain, one of the parents gains the child custody but has to keep away from him because of career.


    About the director: Prasanna Ponde


    Prasanna came into the field of film making after working in the hospitality industry for 11 years. While working in the Facilities Department of a leading international animation studio he started observing the technicalities of films and learnt about filmmaking. After completing 8 years in animation studio, he decided to put his theoretical knowledge into practice and made his first film ‘Vithya’ in which the main protagonist was a school boy. Prasanna’s interest in making films about children continues with ‘Silent Scream’ also.


    Yes I am Mauli


    Ashadhichi Wari is a spiritual tradition that continues for over 1000 years in the state of Maharastra in India. Millions of people walk together from Alandi to Pandharpur which is approx.250 km distance. Suhas Jahagirdar had no intention of making this documentary. But he could not hold back recording the mesmerizing personal experience on his cell phone. Later, he decided to edit them and make a documentary on it, resulting in the film Yes, I am Mauli.


    About the director: Suhas Jahagirdar


    Suhas Jahagirdar who is a Television Program Producer by profession and a spiritual seeker made this journey in 2016 and explored the spiritual aspect of this tradition. This is the first hand account of his journey, his experiences and the impact of wari on his inner being, which is equally insightful for everyone.


    ***


    ED/DJM/BSN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554073) Visitor Counter : 282
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi