      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Special screening of Sholay and Hichki for the visually impaired at IFFI 2018
      
      These films will be screened with audio descriptors for visually impaired
      kids
      Posted On: 13 NOV 2018 10:36PM by PIB Mumbai


    The International Film Festival of India (IFFI) is all set to roll out the red carpet to host the film fraternity in Goa. While cine-goers delight in watching films, the festival also ensures inclusivity and accessibility is maintained so as to spread the joy of cinema through all sections of the society.


    Since 2016, the programming package has included a special curated section for the differently-abled. This year the festival brings two Hindi favourites - Sholay and Hichki, for the benefit of the visually impaired children.


    One of Indian cinemas greatest movies ever, Sholay (directed by Ramesh Sippy) will be brought back on to the big screen to entertain young minds. Sholay follows the adventures of the dynamic duo Jai and Veeru (played by Amitabh Bachchan and Dharmendra respectively) in search of a notorious bandit. The film also starred Sanjeev Kumar, Amjad Khan, Hema Malini and Jaya Bachchan in what are now iconic roles. Even today, decades after the film was released, it still holds a special place in the hearts of all film loving audiences across the country.


    Hichki is the second film to be showcased in this category. It chronicles the inspiring life of Naina Mathur (played by Rani Mukherji) who suffers from the Tourette syndrome but that doesn’t deter her from pursuing her dreams. The 2018 release directed by Siddharth P Malhotra will set a positive, inspiring example of overcoming challenges in life.


    The movies to be screened are equipped with audio descriptions. These are visual explanations intended to help the blind and visually impaired to enjoy cinema or any of the arts.


    But that’s not all. A special presentation of Tunisian films will bring the children up close to international cinema.


    Two years ago, the 47th edition set a benchmark by becoming the first Indian film festival to screen audio descriptive movies. The section is a joint collaboration with UNESCO and Saksham under the Accessible India Campaign and Sugamaya Bharat Abhiyan. Saksham, the Delhi based NGO helps children cope with disabilities by making things accessible to them.


    IFFI has indeed ensured that cinema can be enjoyed by all. The festival is on from the 20 to 28th November in Goa.


    ***


    ED

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556755) Visitor Counter : 72