      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Legendary actress and India’s first female superstar Sridevi to be honoured at IFFI 2018
      
      IFFI 2018 will also pay homage to veteran actors and filmmakers such as Shashi Kapoor, Vinod Khanna, M.Karunanidhi and Kalpana Lajmi
      
      Posted On: 13 NOV 2018 10:43PM by PIB Mumbai


    After ruling the hearts of millions of Indians over her fifty year career, the late superstar of the Hindi and the South film industry, Sridevi bid adieu to the world in February this year. Sridevi was part of many memorable films in multiple Indian languages, a true pan-India star who earned fame and recognition thanks to her astounding work. Starting her career down south in Tamil cinema, she starred in films in Telugu, Hindi, Malayalam and Kannada.


    Publicly regarded as the ‘first female superstar’ of Indian Cinema, she was also the recipient of multiple honours over her long career. This included a National Film Award, Nandi Awards, Tamil Nadu State Film Awards, Kerala State Film Awards, three Filmfare Awards and three Filmfare Awards South.


    In 2013, the Government of India awarded Sridevi the Padma Shri, the country's fourth highest civilian accolade for her contributions to the entertainment industry. Honorary awards were also conferred on her by the state governments of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala.


    IFFI 2018 will be screening Sridevi’s last film, Mom, which also earned her a National Award posthumously.


    In addition to paying a tribute to Sridevi, a retrospective of films of Vinod Khanna will be showcased during IFFI this year. Vinod Khanna is the recipient of the most prestigious film award of the country, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. He received the award posthumously. IFFI will be showcasing some of his best films including Achanak, Lekin and Amar Akbar Anthony.


    That apart the ‘Homages’ section at IFFI 2018 is scheduled to pay tribute to key Indian film personalities who passed away this year. This year homages will be paid to Shashi Kapoor, M. Karunanidhi and Kalpana Lajmi apart from Sridevi.


    Shashi Kapoor’s film Vijeta will be screened at the festival where his son, Kunal Kapoor, who played the lead role in the film, will be present for the screening.


    M. Karunanidhi’s National Award winning Tamil film, Malaikkallan will be screened at the festival as will be Kalpana Lajmi’s Rudaali.


    The 49th International Film Festival of India begins on Tuesday, 20 November 2018 and ends on Wednesday, 28 November, 2018, in Panaji, Goa.


    ***


    ED

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556669) Visitor Counter : 54