      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Headline: IFFI 2018: A ‘Mix of Old and New Cinema’
      Posted On: 18 NOV 2018 10:41PM by PIB Mumbai


    Preparations are underway for the premier of the 49th International Film Festival (IFFI), Goa. As the tiny coastal state readies to welcome the film fraternities from across the world, the spotlight is on the yearly filmy extravaganza that showcases the best line up of movies, master classes, talks and workshops.


    Calling IFFI a mix of ‘old and new’ cinema, Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore, Minister of State (I/C) stated that, “This year IFFI will bring together the old, new and digital cinema. The master classes being held on various subjects will be conducted by experts from the India and international film fraternities. In addition we will try to live stream this on social media to make it accessible for all.”


    Elaborating on the digital aspects, the Minister highlighted the role played by Indian VFX artists making Hollywood films. The time has come, he stated to promote these talented experts. He mentioned, “The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting is looking to set up a gaming, and visual effects institution and we have to start work on the same. This will set a high standard in India. We can open many satellite schools that can follow the syllabus set them.”


    He also spoke about the emergence of digital cinema and platforms like Netflix, Hot star, and other applications. IFFI, he said will speak about all these facets.


    Apart from the focus on digital platforms, the Country Focus this edition will showcase films from Israel. The Minister spoke of its segment as being an opportunity to strengthen ties between India and other countries. It is a way to collaborate and share ideas. “Israeli filmmakers focus on producing films for international audiences. This year will highlight films from the country and the cast and crew will be present,” he added.


    In addition to the country, the focus is the State focus. Jharkhand is the first to open the category. While bigger regional cinema like Mumbai, Bengali, Tamil and Telugu are already well-developed, states like Jharkhand also need a push forward. “IFFI Goa is one such platform to promote the culture and beauty of the State through film at an international level. The entertainment industry, he felt, is not only the meant for entertainment, but boost the economy of a State.”


    From depicting the beauty and culture on reel, IFFI will have something for the sports fans as well. “Films over the years have focused on sports. We have invited the actors and directors of the films to share their journeys, inspirations, possible marketability of films. This was a trend in Hollywood and now in Indian cinema,” he noted.


    The Minister said that the idea is to create a ‘festive mood’. Apart from the movie bonanza, get ready for street films, a host of workshops, and film makers can pitch their ideas at the NFDC Film Bazaar.


    The Minister shared these thoughts in an interview on DD News.


    ***


    ED

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556780) Visitor Counter : 48