      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      IFFI 2018 to close with the World Premiere of the German film, ‘Sealed Lips’
      
      Much like its opening film, IFFI 2018 to close with another World Premiere – the German film,
      ‘Sealed Lips’
      
      The film’s cast and crew comprising of Bernd Böhlich (Director), Thomas Plenert (Director of Photography) and actresses Barbara Schnitzler and Swetlana Schönfeld, to attend the screening
      
      Sealed Lips is a captivating portrayal of Antonia Berger, a young German and enthusiastic communist, who is imprisoned in a Soviet gulag in the 1930s

      Posted On: 13 NOV 2018 10:03PM by PIB Mumbai

    The 49th International Film Festival of India (IFFI) will come to a close with the World Premiere of ‘Sealed Lips’. It is important to note that the opening film of the festival ‘The Aspern Papers’ will also be having its World Premiere at IFFI 2018, in the presence of its’ critically and commercially acclaimed cast and crew.


    The key cast and crew of the Sealed Lips will be present for the screening at the festival. This includes Bernd Böhlich (Director), Thomas Plenert (Director of Photography) and the cast of the film that includes actresses Barbara Schnitzler and Swetlana Schönfeld.


    Speaking about the film, the Directorate of Film Festivals said, “Over the years, German films have carved a niche for themselves in world cinema, courtesy some stellar work produced by German filmmakers. We are ecstatic to have one such film from Germany as the Closing Film of IFFI 2018. And to have its World Premiere here, is an icing on the cake. We look forward to having the Director and the cast of the film with us for the premiere.” The statement further said, “At IFFI, we have always kept in mind the need for a healthy exchange of the cinema culture between countries. With the World Premiere of ‘Sealed Lips’ at IFFI, we are giving the audiences here a great opportunity to the audience to witness a World Premiere.”


    Besides Schnitzler and Schönfeld, the film also stars Alexandra Maria Lara, Carlota von Falkenhayn, Robert Stadlober and Karoline Eichhorn. The 100-minute long film has been produced by Eva-Marie Martens, Alexander Martens.


    Sealed Lips


    Germany / 2018 / German / 100Min. / Colour


    Director: Bernd Böhlich


    Screenplay: Bernd Böhlich


    Producer: Eva-Marie Martens, Alexander Martens


    Director of Photography: Thomas Plenert


    Cast: Alexandra Maria Lara, Carlota von Falkenhayn, Robert Stadlober, Karoline Eichhorn, Barbara Schnitzler


    Synopsis of Sealed Lips:


    Antonia Berger, a young German and enthusiastic Communist, goes to the Soviet Union in the 1930s. Whilst there, she is accused of spying and sent to Vorkuta’s labor camp. After being released from the gulag in 1952, she manages to return home to the new socialist East German state with her daughter Lydia. Antonia is forced by her party comrades to keep her terrible experiences secret for the common good. Antonia has to make a choice – between truth and the present.


    About the Director:


    Bernd Böhlich was born on 25th April, 1957. He is a German film director who’s directed more than thirty films since 1983. Bernd Böhlich began his film career as an assistant Director at the GDR television and then began a directing degree at the Film University Potsdam-Babelsberg , which he completed in 1982 with his diploma film Front leave . He then worked as a Director and screenwriter for the GDR television.


    The 49th International Film Festival of India begins on Tuesday, 20 November 2018 and ends on Wednesday, 28 November, 2018, in Panaji, Goa.


    ***


    ED

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556751) Visitor Counter : 45