      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      MS Dhoni The Untold Story and six other films featuring Jharkhand to display the state’s vibrant culture as a part of Special Focus at IFFI 2018
      
      IFFI 2018 to screen films that may have been shot in Jharkhand under the Jharkhand Government Film Promotion Programme or made in the language/dialect of the State
      
      IFFI 2018 will host stalls set up to promote the film promotion policy of the state, promote/sell the handicrafts of the state, and showcase the cuisines through food stalls from the State
      
      Jharkhand Day to be celebrated on 24th November 2018, as a part of the State Focus celebrations

      Posted On: 17 NOV 2018 10:38PM by PIB Mumbai

    IFFI 2018 is giving the international audiences a taste of Jharkhand’s vibrant culture, as a part of Special Focus on the state by screening a total of seven films that have an unmistakable Jharkhand flavour in them. Being a recipient of the special mention award for promoting filmmaking in 2016, Jharkhand is in a rightful position to collaborate with 49th IFFI to become the first state in State Focus section. Films such as Begum Jaan, MS Dhoni The Untold Story, Ranchi Diary, A Death in the Gunj, Mor Gao Mor Desh, Ajab Singh ki Gajab Kahani, and Panchlet will be screened as a part of this segment at IFFI 2018.


    In connection with this, Jharkhand Day will be celebrated on 24th November 2018 as a part of the festival.


    Directorate of Film Festivals, in a statement, said, “India’s rich diversity lies in the landscapes and scenic locales and natural settings that are so different from each other as one traverses from one state to another. Of late, Jharkhand has provided the much needed ‘playground’ for films, lending them its natural beauty that has been so beautifully captured by the talented filmmakers of our country. We are featuring these films at IFFI 2018 for the audiences from across the world – for a glimpse of this beautiful Indian state.”


    IFFI 2018 will have screen a special package of films that may have been shot in Jharkhand under the Jharkhand Government Film Promotion Programme, or made in the language/dialect of the State.


    The movies in the Jharkhand Package include:


    1. A Death in the Gunj


    2. Begum Jaan


    3. Mor Gao Mor Desh


    4. Ajab Singh ki Gajab Kahani


    5. Ranchi Diary


    6. Panchlet


    7. M.S.D. The Untold Story


    The festival will invite a cultural troupe from Jharkhand to showcase the rich cultural legacy of the region.


    In addition to that, IFFI 2018 will host multiple stalls set up to promote the film promotion policy of the state, promote/sell the handicrafts of the state, and showcase the cuisines through food stalls from the State.


    The 49th International Film Festival of India begins on Tuesday, 20 November 2018 and ends on Wednesday, 28 November, 2018, in Panaji, Goa.


    ***


    ED

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556664) Visitor Counter : 43