      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Janaushadhi Kendras accepting orders on WhatsApp and e-mail to facilitate medicine procurement during lockdown
      Posted On: 05 MAY 2020 12:59PM by PIB Delhi


    Amid lockdown many Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Janaushadhi Kendras(PMBJK) under the Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers are accepting the orders for medicines on WhatsApp and e-mail, where on the basis of uploaded prescriptions medicines are delivered at the doorsteps of the patients. This novel move is ensuring use of technology for facilitating easier procurement of medicines by the users. Complementing PMBJKs for this initiative Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri DV Sadananda Gowda said, " it is heartening to note that many PMBJKs are using modern communication tools including social media plataforms like Whatsapp to provide better services in effecting faster delivery of essential medicines to the needy."


    PMBJKs are working under the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana ( PMBJP). At present threre are over 6300 PMBJKs functioning in 726 districts of the country ensuring supply of quality medicines at affordable prices. These medicine are cheaper by about 50% to 90% on an average. In April 2020 around 52,crore Rupees worth of medicine have been supplied throught the country.


    In addition, supply arrangements with India Post has also been made for supply to remotely located stores.


    Moreover Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India(BPPI) under Department of Pharmaceuticals, Union Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers, has paid its vendors within due date for solving their working capital issues for raw material & logistics.


    Dedicated Team has been created of BPPI Officers for every State to sort out bottlenecks in supply due to lockdown.


    Jan Aushadhi warehouses are working at full capacity and inhouse residential arrangements have been made for staff.


    Helpline numbers of BPPI is working to resolve any issues of consumers and store owners.


    For maintaining supply of essential Medicines during lock down period, BPPI has issued purchase orders for 178 fast moving medicines in the month of April having MRP of Rs 186.52 crore.


    ********


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621141) Visitor Counter : 2293
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam