      President's Secretariat

      Artists Shri Subodh Gupta and Smt. Bharti Kher to stay in Rashtrapati Bhavan as Artists In-Residence
      Posted On: 01 MAR 2017 4:38PM by PIB Delhi

      

    Artists Shri Subodh Gupta and Smt. Bharti Kher will commence their stay in Rashtrapati Bhavan as Artists In-Residence tomorrow (March 2, 2017). They will be in residence till March 10, 2017.
    
    Shri Subodh Gupta was born in 1964 in Khagaul, Bihar and studied at the College of Art, Patna (1983-1988). He is known for working with everyday objects, such as steel kitchen utensils. While stainless steel is his signature medium, he has also masterfully executed works in bronze, marble, brass and wood. His works have been exhibited in prestigious museums, art fairs and biennales throughout the world. Solo exhibitions of his work have been held in some of the most internationally renowned museums and galleries, including National Gallery of Modern Art (New Delhi), Museum für Moderne Kunst (Frankfurt), Victoria and Albert Museum (London), Hauser & Wirth (London, Zurich, New York and Somerset), Arario (Seoul and Beijing), Pinchuk Art Centre (Kiev) and Galeria Continua (San Gimignano, Italy). He was awarded the Chevalier dans l’Ordre des Arts et des Letters, among the French government’s highest honors, for his contribution to contemporary art.
    
    Smt. Bharti Kher born in 1969 in London is a leading Indian contemporary artist. She studied painting and design at Middlesex Polytechnic in London and then at Newcastle Polytechnic in Northern England. She is an artist committed to exploring cultural misinterpretations and social codes through her art practice. She uses the bindi as a central motif in her work to link tradition and modernity, East and West. Her famed installation, The Skin Speaks A Language Not Its Own (2006), features a life-size elephant made with fiberglass and covered with numerous white bindis, kneeling on the floor in an ambiguous state between dying and living. In her sculptures and collages, Smt. Kher has created hybrid beings that unite contradictions of gender, species, race, and social role. Sculptures such as Arione (2004) and Arione’s Sister (2006) are part-human, part-animal; sperm-shaped bindis writhe over their bodies, completing the vision of a futuristic femininity. She has been exhibiting internationally for more than two decades. Her most recent shows include the ones at the Vancouver Art Museum (Vancouver), Freud Museum (London), Rockbund Art Museum (Shanghai), 20th Biennale of Sydney (Sydney), Guggenheim Abu Dhabi (Abu Dhabi), Centre Pompidou (Paris). She is the chairperson and founding member of Khoj International Artists Association. She was also an artistic advisory for the Kochi-Muziris Biennale 2016 and is an executive committee member for Jawahar Kala Kendra Museum, Jaipur. She was awarded the Chevalier dans l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres in 2015.
    
    The ‘In-Residence’ programme in Rashtrapati Bhavan was launched by the President of India on December 11, 2013 with the aim of providing writers and artists an opportunity to stay in Rashtrapati Bhavan and be a part of the life of Rashtrapati Bhavan. The Programme seeks to provide an environment which will inspire creative thinking and rejuvenate artistic impulses. It is intended to honour and recognize eminent and established artists and writers as well as encourage young upcoming talent from different parts of the country.
    
    Prominent Artists In-Residence who have stayed in the Rashtrapati Bhavan under this programme so far include Shri Jogen Chowdhary, MP (Rajya Sabha), Shri Paresh Maity, Smt. Jayasri Burman and Mr. Shahabuddin Ahmed of Bangladesh.

    ***
    

    
    AKT/AK/VK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483477) Visitor Counter : 48