      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Udhampur Martyr Capt. Tushar Mahajan's parents meet MoS Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 21 MAR 2017 5:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The parents of Martyr Capt. Tushar Mahajan of Udhampur, Shri Dev Raj Gupta and Smt Asha Rani, who are currently in the Union capital to receive Shaurya Chakra (posthumous) on behalf of their son, called on the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here yesterday. Pertinent to mention that Capt. Tushar had sacrificed his life in a counter-militancy operation early last year.
    
    While acknowledging the well-deserved honour bestowed upon Late Capt. Tushar Mahajan, Dr Jitendra Singh said that the nation is eternally indebted and no award or prize can ever repay for the supreme sacrifice of brave hearts like Tushar. It is because of these young boys, he said, that we are able to carry on with our daily routine in safe environs. These youngsters stay awake when we sleep, they remain empty stomach when we eat and they lay down their life so that we can remain alive, he said.
    
    Shri Dev Raj Gupta thanked Dr Jitendra Singh for all the timely and prompt assistance provided by him following the sudden demise of Tushar, in arranging the instant Visa and travel documents for Tushar’s elder brother who lives abroad, so that he could reach Udhampur to attend the last rites of Tushar.
    
    In response, Dr Jitendra Singh said, nothing is enough to honour the memory of Capt. Tushar nor can there be enough of consolation for the parents who have lost their son. However, he said, he has taken up the issue of naming the Railway Station at Udhampur after the name of Martyr Capt. Tushar Mahajan and he soon plans to discuss the matter with Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh. Most of the formalities required for the naming of the Railway Station have already been completed, he said, and the procedure has been gone through different Departments and Ministries while the final call is to be taken by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh appreciated the decision taken by Shri Dev Raj Gupta and his wife Smt Asha Rani to set up a Trust in the memory of Capt. Tushar and said that he would be keenly willing to contribute to the Trust in whichever manner possible. He said, he will always be available to arrange different kind of activities by the Trust as desired by Tushar’s parents and would also contribute required financial funds, as and when required.

    ****
    

    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485090) Visitor Counter : 9