      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      
      All Northeast State Capitals To Be Connected By BG Rail Link By 2020: NFR
      IMPCC Meeting of Assam Chapter Held In Guwahati Today
      Posted On: 01 MAR 2019 4:02PM by PIB Guwahati


    As per Indian Railways’ Vision Document, all Northeast state capitals are to be connected by BG Rail Link by 2020, said Shri N.K. Prasad, General Manager, Construction wing, North East Frontier Railway, taking part in the monthly Inter Media Publicity Coordination Committee (IMPCC) meeting held in North East Frontier Railway, (construction), Maligaon, Guwahati today. In the meeting held under the chairmanship of Shri Kuldeep Singh Dhatwalia, Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, the General Manager briefed the participants on “Development of Railway Infrastructure in North East Zone”. Giving a detailed presentation about goals, achievements and on-going projects of NF Railway, he said that, with an aim to provide better communication and facilities in the North East region the North East Frontier Railway is taking various initiaves.


    As informed by the NF Railway, apart from the BG Link by 2020, other goals by the NF Railway are, conversion of entire MG to BG in NF Railway, to provide faster connectivity to North East by doubling of railway line from New Jalpaiguri to Lumding, avenues for international connectivity etc. In total 43 projects are under execution on NF Railway, out of which 14 projects are physically completed, 3 projects are waiting for CCEA clearance and 4 projects are at their initial planning stage.


    In today’s meeting officials of NF Railway (construction) also highlighted the various developmental activities of railways in all the 8 states of the region. It was informed that Assam and Meghalaya will be connected through the Byrnihat-Shillong line of 108 Km. Manipur will be connected through a 111 km long line from Jiribam to Imphal. A bridge with a pier height of 141 m, which will be the tallest rail bridge in the world is also under construction under Jiribam- Imphal new line project.


    After the presentation, Shri K.S Dhatwalia, Chairman of IMPCC, Assam Chapter appreciated the efforts of NF Railway in connecting the North East region to the rest of the country. He also said that Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, DIPR and NF Railway to join hands together for getting proper publicity of initiatives , activities and achievements of these departments. He informed all the members that a WhatsApp group for communication to media has already been started jointly by these three departments for better flow of information.


    Officials from different departments participated in today’s meeting and shared their views and gave their suggestions at the end of the meeting. They mentioned that the IMPCC platform is very useful for them in sharing their views and getting inputs from other members.


    The IMPCC meetings as decided by Ministry of I & B, are conducted every month on 1 st Monday of the month. In the eventuality of the day being a holiday, it is being held one day in advance or later.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567244) Visitor Counter : 11
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese