      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      
      Media Workshop-Vartalap organized in Kokrajhar
      Media Workshop clears myths and misconceptions on Income Tax in Tribal Areas
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2019 5:08PM by PIB Guwahati


    Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today organized a one-day workshop for journalists, Vartalap at Bodoland Guest House, Kokrajhar in association with BTC Administration, Kokrajhar. Shri Daneswar Goyary, EM, BTC attended the workshop as the chief guest where journalists from across the district attended.
    Shri Daneswar Goyary appreciated the efforts of Press Information Bureau and BTC administration in organizing sensitization workshops for journalists and said that the success of any scheme or policy of the government depends upon proper dissemination of information to the masses. He added that this kind of initiative will help in clearing the apprehensions of the tribal people regarding income tax. He also opined that more such workshops can be organized to make the general masses aware of the government schemes through the help of the Pressmen.
    Director General (NE Zone), Ministry of I & B, Shri Kuldeep Singh Dhatwalia hinting upon the importance of well directed communication, said that proper dissemination of information among the people is the essential for any scheme of the government to be successful. He added that a well informed Press also helps to clarify doubts among the masses regarding government policies. He added that his ministry is constantly in the effort to make the general masses aware of the government schemes, policies and programme through its various departments.
    During the technical session, Shri Anil Bhardwaj, Addl. Commissioner, Income Tax, gave a detailed presentation on the peculiar issues relating to Direct Taxation and on the issues related to section 10(26) of Income-tax Act with reference to Tribal areas. He also highlighted various new provisions prohibiting certain types of transactions, particularly cash transactions, which attract stiff penalties. Since NER has low banking coverage, people may inadvertently enter into the prohibited transactions and thus become exposed to penal provisions, he added. He said, “The awareness campaign, and this workshop in particular will help the people understand and avoid such prohibited transactions”.
    He also added that ‘The Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Amendment Act, 2016’ imposes obligations on taxpayers and others not to indulge in certain types of transactions or to report such transactions. This workshop seeks to spread awareness about such laws and prohibitions and obligations there under, he added. This is for the first time that such dedicated campaign has been launched in NER for the benefit of the tax payers in the Region.
    Dr J Ahmed, Joint Director of Health Services and Shri Sanjay Sen, Assistant Director, Agriculture Department gave a detailed presentation of their respective departments, where they highlighted the welfare schemes that are being run by the government for the benefit of the masses.
    The workshop was also attended by Additional Secretary, Smt Jolly Das Brahma, Secretary BTC, Shri Bhabani Prasad Sarma, officials of the Income Tax Department of Guwahati and Bongaigaon, officials of Press Information Bureau, Guwahati, and officials of the State government.
    The technical session was followed by an interactive session where the resource persons were able to clarify various queries of the journalists.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567647) Visitor Counter : 9