      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      
      Media Workshop-Vartalap organized in Guwahati
      Week Long Exhibition on 150 Years of Mahatma Gandhi Begins
      Posted On: 11 MAR 2019 4:16PM by PIB Guwahati


    Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today organized a one-day workshop for journalists, Vartalap at its office premises in Guwahati on the subject “Income tax act and its application in tribal areas”.


    Director General (NE Zone), Ministry of I & B, Shri Kuldeep Singh Dhatwalia hinting upon the importance of well directed communication, said that proper dissemination of information regarding income tax act is very essential for clearing myths and misconception among the people.


    Smt. Ningreirum Longua(IRS), Commissioner, Income Tax, appreciated the efforts of PIB for its cooperation to carry forward the awareness campaign on Income tax.


    Shri Padmapani Bora, Joint Commissioner, Income Tax, gave a detailed presentation on the peculiar issues relating to Direct Taxation and on the issues related to section 10(26) of Income-tax Act with reference to Tribal areas. He also highlighted various new provisions prohibiting certain types of transactions, particularly cash transactions, which attract stiff penalties. Since NER has low banking coverage, people may inadvertently enter into the prohibited transactions and thus become exposed to penal provisions, he added. He said that the awareness campaign, and such workshop in particular will help the people understand and avoid such prohibited transactions.


    He also added that ‘The Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Amendment Act, 2016’ imposes obligations on taxpayers and others not to indulge in certain types of transactions or to report such transactions. This workshop seeks to spread awareness about such laws and prohibitions and obligations there under, he added.


    Shri Bidyasagar Narzary, former Additional Director General, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting said in his speech that the way we need money to run the family, Government needs money to run the country, so it is every individual’s duty to pay tax regularly. He urged everyone to pay tax and to motivate others to pay tax as well.


    The Vartalap was followed by the inauguration of a week long exhibition on 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi organized by Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati. Shri K.S. Dhatwalia, Director General, NE Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting inaugurated the exhibition with other dignitaries and paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi’s Bust. They also took a tour of the exhibition. The exhibition depicts the different stages of work and life of Mahatma Gandhi. The exhibition is open for all from 11 am to 5 pm till 17 th March, 2019


    Dr. Ahmed Muyeen Farooqi, Deputy Director, Regional Outreach Bureau requests everyone to cooperate and participate in the event to make it a success.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568628) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese