      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Programme organised for awareness on government schemes
      Posted On: 09 MAR 2019 5:23PM by PIB Guwahati


    A multi media publicity programme was organised at Rukmini Nagar Bihutoli , Guwahati today to make the residents aware of the various welfare schemes of the government. The programme was inaugurated by Shri Kuldeep Singh Dhatwalia, DG (NEZ), Ministry of I & B, Govt of India.


    The programme, termed as “New India Chaupal”, is a multi-pronged approach; dissemination of information of various schemes implemented by Goverment of India, approach beneficiaries of these schemes, collect their testimonials and encourage them to share their story with their fellow villagers and provide an opportunity for public enrol and benefit in these schemes.


    Shri Dhatwalia in his address said that the Government of India has always believed in the idea of “SabkaSaathSabkaVikas”. It has consistently made efforts into identifying issues plaguing India and has come up with solutions for these issues. “New India Chaupal” is one such initiative by Government of India. He urged the residents to come forward and take benefits of the welfare schemes being implemented by the government.


    Shri A M Farooqi, Deputy Director, ROB Guwahati, who was also present in the programme, said that the Ministry of I & B is organising these awareness programmes through Jagran, an agency hired through Broadcast Engineering Consultants India Limited (BECIL). In Assam, more than 400 programmes are being organised in different districts of the State during the last 2 weeks. The campaign aims to reach out to villages in 26 districts throughout Assam targeting to reach maximum citizens, he added.


    The programmes give information on Central Government schemes and include nukkadnatak s, exhibition panel displays, video/film show through mobile LED van and other display items. A drawing & painting competition was also organised among the children of the locality. Through this campaign the Government aim to achieve an increase in top of the mind recall and increase public participations in various schemes started by the Government of India like Atal Pension Yojana, Skill india, SukanyaSamriddhi account, Make in india etc.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568631) Visitor Counter : 3