      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      New Office Complex of NIC Inaugurated in Guwahati
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2019 1:59PM by PIB Guwahati


    The new state-of-the-art office complex of the Assam State Centre of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) was inaugurated by the Chief Secretary of Assam, Shri Alok Kumar, IAS, at Last Gate, Dispur today .


    Speaking after inaugurating the new office complex, the Chief Secretary said that, if any Central Government organisation has come very close to the State Government and worked shoulder-to-shoulder with it, it is NIC. He said, NIC with its centres in the State Capital and each of the districts has been working as one of our own, and that is the real reason for its success. He also said that, NIC has been the champion and pioneer of computerization in the state, and has been instrumental in raising the level of work in the Government, improving productivity, service delivery and interaction with the public. We all are proud of the robust, secure and safe applications of NIC, he added


    Shri Kuldeep Singh Dhatwalia, Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, who was present in the inauguration programme today, expressed his gratitude towards NIC for their support in making the office of the Director General, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting at Guwahati equipped with Internet and Video Conference facility. He informed that six states of North East with the help of NIC, are already connected through video conferencing from Guwahati. He appreciated NIC’s support in setting up of all facilities for PIB in North East region.


    Delivering his address, Shri Niraj Verma, Principal Secretary, IT Department, Government of Assam said that NIC has always been playing a very important role in the IT sector and e-governance from grass root level onwards. Expressing his happiness he said that, this new office campus will definitely help to grow the contribution of NIC, as it is equally important to have a very good office for effective performance. We look forward to continuous association with NIC, he added.


    Gracing the occasion today, Dr. M. Angamuthu Commissioner and Secretary, GAD & SAD appreciated the role and excellent support of NIC in providing e-governance solutions which have been implemented in the Assam Secretariat, such as e-Office, e-Prastuti, Unified State Portal, e-Pass and the state of the art Secretariat LAN, to name a few.


    NIC has been closely working with the Assam State Government since the dawn of Information Technology in the eighties. The most important contribution of NIC has been providing the entire Government the network backbone through NICNET. The Assam Government depends totally on NIC for all its network connectivities. The digital Driving Licenses and Registration Cards issued by the DTO offices is the outcome of NIC’s Transport Computerization Project. Recently, in the first week of February, the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Assam had launched the facility of online payments for all processes related to vehicle registrations and Driving Licenses.


    The video conferencing services of NIC not only enables Dispur to interact face-to-face with its district officials, but also makes it possible for the Chief Minister and senior state officials to have audio-visual discussions with central government ministries and the Prime Minister himself. The recent announcement of a Regional Data Centre to be set up with the help of NIC is proof of the vision of an even more promising digital future. The Assam Government and NIC are working hand in hand to serve Assam and its people to realize the dream of a digital Assam.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568634) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese