      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      MDWS invites entries for Media Awards to be given on SBM anniversary
      Posted On: 21 SEP 2017 4:33PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    The Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation invites entries from media organizations to send proposals for the Swachh Bharat Media Awards which will be given away on the 3rd anniversary of the Swachh Bharat Mission, October 2nd, 2017. These awards are aimed at honouring media organizations that have contributed in a tangible way in making Swachhta a Jan Aandolan through awareness generation and special initiatives since SBM launch in 2014 on 2 nd Oct.


    
    Please answer the following questions, include basic details of your organization, such as name, medium (print, television, radio, etc.), viewership/readership, etc.


    Please send your entry as an email to gpsingh@washinstitute.org and copy to anisha.pmcmdws@gmail.com with the subject line “proposal for Swachh Bharat Media Awards”. The last date for submission of entries is September 25 th , 2017.

    
    1. What is your understanding of the Swachh Bharat Mission, its strengths and challenges. Please describe in 250 words.


    2. Do you have a beat journalist / team working dedicatedly on covering Swachhta issues at the national and regional levels? Please mention number of staff members on this dedicated team at both levels.


    3. Have you run any special media campaigns / events to engage citizens in the cause of Swachhta? Please describe in maximum of 300 words, including the impact of these special initiatives.


    4. Have you run any special features / programming dedicated to Swachhta over the last year? Please describe in a maximum of 300 words.


    5. How many stories have your organization done spreading the message of Swachh Bharat Mission in the last year? Please give 10 best examples.


    

    Any other special initiatives you have undertaken to further the cause of Swachhta in the country. (Maximum of 300 words).


    
    
    The Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation will set up a jury who will evaluate the entries to select winners. The decision of the jury will be final and binding.


    <><><><><><>

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503634) Visitor Counter : 64
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati