      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Centre is committed to socio-economic-educational empowerment of poor and weaker sections- Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi
      Posted On: 05 NOV 2017 4:00PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai, November 05, 2017


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that country’s inclusive growth is “Rashtradharma” and “development with dignity” of poor and weaker sections is “Rashtraniti” for Central Government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    Addressing a seminar organized on the skill development of Minorities in Mumbai's YB Chavan Auditorium, Shri Naqvi said that rising above region, religion, caste and creed, the Modi Government has made the poor and weaker sections as centre point of welfare schemes.


    Shri Naqvi said that the Modi Government is working with commitment to socio-economic-educational empowerment and job-oriented skill development of all poor and weaker sections including the Minorities.


    Shri Naqvi said that schemes of Minority Affairs Ministry such as "Seekho aur Kamao”, "Nai Manzil”, “Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Scheme”, "Nai Roushni”- have proved an important step in the direction of skill development of Minorities. More than 50 lakh people have been provided employment and employment opportunities in the last three years through these schemes.


    Shri Naqvi said that 100 "Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Centres” are being set up across the country where various employment oriented courses are being offered to youth of the Minority communities.


    Shri Naqvi said that apart from this, "Hunar Haat" are being organised across the country and employment and employment opportunities have been provided to lakhs of poor and needy artisans of the Minority communities.


    Shri Naqvi said that under the Multi-Sectoral Development Programme, infrastructure has been created to ensure educational and social empowerment of Minorities. 809 School Buildings, 10 Degree Colleges, 371 Hostels, 1392 Toilets and Drinking Water Facilities, 53 ITIs, 269 multi-purpose community centre “Sadbhav Mandap”, 39 Gurukul types residential schools have been constructed in backward Minority concentrated areas.


    Shri Naqvi said that under the "Pradhanmantri Mudra Yojna”, 9 crore 13 lakh people have been given employment and employment opportunities. The Government has distributed loan of about Rs 4 lakh crore to them. The beneficiaries include a large number of Minorities.


    Shri Naqvi said that electricity has been provided in about 15 thousand villages which were living without electricity since after the Independence. This has benefited the poor people of the Minority communities also.


    Shri Naqvi said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the measures to strengthen the Indian economy which include several economic reforms are being recognized by the entire world today. India has got great success on the economic front. In the recently issued World Bank report, India has jumped a massive 30 places to 100 in the World Bank's ease of doing business rankings in 2017. It was 130 in the previous year.


    (Source- Ministers Office)


    PIB Release/NS/AS/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508277) Visitor Counter : 281