      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Hunar Haat inaugurated in IITF 2017
      Ministry of Minority Affairs organises Hunar Haat at Pragati Maidan from 14-27 November
      Posted On: 15 NOV 2017 5:34PM by PIB Mumbai


    New Delhi, 15 th Nov, 2017: “Hunar Haat”, a spectacular platform of Ministry of Minority Affairs where exquisite pieces of Handicraft & Handloom prepared by inmates of Tihar Jail and master artisans from across the country are displayed, was inaugurated at India International Trade Fair at Pragati Maidan, today.


    While inaugurating “Hunar Haat”, being organised from 14 th to 27 th Nov, 2017, Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that “Hunar Haat” at Pragati Maidan is an immpresive gathering of master artisans & craftsmen from “Tihar to Tripura, Kashmir to Kanyakumari & Karnataka to Kolkata”.


    Ministry of Minority Affairs is organising “Hunar Haat” under “USTTAD” scheme at different parts of the country and “Hunar Haat” have become a successful mission to provide employment and employment opportunities and national as well international markets for thousands of master artisans, craftsmen and culinary experts.


    The Minister said that while on one hand “Hunar Haat” have provided a platform to master artisans and craftsmen to display their rich heritage and skill, on the other hand these exhibitions are providing domestic and international markets to these artisans and craftsmen.


    This time, the “Hunar Haat” is being organised at Hall Number-7G & 7H of Pragati Maidan, where about 130 artisans from 20 states & Union Territories are participating which include 30 women artisans.


    Shri Naqvi said that this “Hunar Haat” is unique from earlier “Hunar Haat” as for the first time products made by inmates of Delhi’s Tihar Jail are also available. These products include handmade furniture, handlooms, handicrafts, bakery items, organic oil, spices and grain.


    Shri Naqvi said that the artisans have brought with them very exquisite pieces of Handicraft & Handloom work like Cane & Bamboo & Jute Products of Assam; Tussar, Geeja, Matka Silk of Bhagalpur; Traditional Jewellery, Lac Bangles & Jewellery from Rajasthan & Telangana; Kantha Products of West Bengal; Brocades of Varanasi; Lucknawi Chikan Work, Zari Zardozi from U.P; Khurja Ceramic Products; Clay items, Blackstone Pottery, Dry Flowers and Traditional Handicrafts of North-East; Shawls, Carpets & Papier-mache of Kashmir; Ajrakh Print, Mutva, Kutch Embroidery & Bandhej of Gujarat; Batik/Bagh/Maheshwari of Madhya Pradesh; Aplique & Ajrakh of Barmer; Leather Products, Brassware of Moradabad; Kalamkari of Telangana; to name a few. New products include baskets made from Natural Grass by artisans from Puducherry & UP; Gota patti work from Rajasthan, Mural paintings & Bandhej from Gujarat.


    Shri Naqvi said that the Minority Affairs Ministry had earlier organised “Hunar Haat” at Puducherry and Baba Khadak Singh Marg in Delhi this year and at Delhi’s Pragati Maidan last year. “Hunar Haat” will also be organised at Mumbai, Kolkata, Lucknow, Bhopal and other places in coming days. Besides, we are working to establish “Hunar Hub” in all states of the country where artisans will be provided training as per present requirement.


    Artisans and craftsmen from Andhra Pradesh (2), Assam (2), Bihar (4), Delhi (24), Gujarat (11), Jammu and Kashmir (9), Jharkhand (1), Karnataka (4), Madhya Pradesh (5), Manipur (1), Mizoram (1), Nagaland (4), Puducherry (3), Punjab (2), Rajasthan (12), Tamil Nadu (1), Telangana (2), Uttar Pradesh (37), Uttrakhand (1) and West Bengal (4) are participating.


    Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs Shri Dr Virendra Kumar, Sceretary Minority Affairs Shri Ameising Luikham, Chairman NMDFC Shri Shahbaz Ali, DG Tihar Jail Shri Ajay Kashyap and other senior officials and other people were also present on the occasion.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1509625) Visitor Counter : 262