      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Press Note - Rare 1967 film on Raigad discovered, special screening on 27th at NFAI
      Posted On: 24 NOV 2017 1:01PM by PIB Mumbai


    Pune: November 24,2017

    A rare opportunity for audiences to see captured on celluloid the legendary fort of Raigad, the capital of Chhatrapati Shivaji’s kingdom nestled among the hills of the Western Ghats, as it was 50 years ago!


    On 27 November 1967, the one-reel short film Kille Raigad (2017) was officially granted a censor certificate. To mark the 50th anniversary of the film, NFAI has organized a special screening of this rare 10-minute short film directed by Madhav Shinde narrated by historian and Shivaji expert Babasaheb Purandare. The screening will be held on Monday, 27 November 2017 5pm at NFAI, Law College Road, Pune. The special attraction of this event is that Purandare himself will be present at the screening.


    The fort of Raigad occupies an important place in the history of Maharashtra, being the capital of Shivaji’s kingdom. Madhav Shinde, the director of the short film ‘Kille Raigad’, was among the important filmmakers of the Kolhapur school of filmmaking. He made noted Marathi films like Shikleli Bayko (The Educated Wife), Grihadevata and Dharmakanya. ‘Kille Raigad’ was produced by Mahalaxmi Chitra, the production banner founded by the Mangeshkar Family.


    The short filkm features some intriguing bit of filmmaking – it’s a hybrid film that combines documentary footage of the Raigad Fort in 1967, and superimposes upon it enacted scenes of Chhatrapati Shivaji and his officials. Making the film even more interesting is its use of sketches. Combining several cinematic techniques, the film guides the viewer through the Fort.


    With an inspired voice-over narration, Purandare provides invaluable details about the fort – the room where the King used to rest, the secret passageways used by the soldiers during the battles and the legendary Hirkani Bastion. Beautiful black-and-white footage transports the audience right to the historic place, while Purandare’s narration further deepens the unique effect created by the film.


    NFAI acquired a 16mm print of the film courtesy of Babasaheb Purandare, facilitated by the efforts of Dr. Ravi Lohokare and Anil Damle. The print received by NFAI was in a heavily damaged state, and through its efforts, the archive has salvaged and restored nearly 95% of the film.


    Thus, this screening at NFAI offers the audience with the rare opportunity to witness this unique film and listen to Shiv-shahir Purandare talk about Shivaji, Raigad and the film in person.


    Entry to the event is free for all, and seating is on first come first serve basis.


    Source: NFAI, Pune

    
    

    
    (Release ID: 1510731) Visitor Counter : 264