      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Tributes paid to the martyrs of 26/11
      Country is fully prepared for internal security and has thawarted all terrorist attempts since then :Hansraj Ahir

      Posted On: 26 NOV 2017 2:45PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai: November 26,2017


    Glowing tributes were paid to the martyrs of 26/11 today at a function organised by Forum for Awareness for National Security (FANS) in the International Convention hall of the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE). Speaking on the occasion Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Ahir said the country will never forget the martyrdom of the brave officers and jawans of the security forces including the Maharashtra Police. Nine years ago on this day a gang of terrorists had struck at several important public venues in Mumbai and battling them the braves of the security forces had laid their lives.


    Shri Ahir said that the Union government with the help of the state governments has since then successfully thwarted all attempts for any terrorist act. The world has been fighting the various kinds of terrorists but the active participation of an alert citizenry alone will help thwart the unexpected and sudden terrorist acts, he said.


    Enumerating the various efforts undertaken by the Central government in mounting full scale preparedness for facing terrorism Shri Ahir said government has achieved considerable success in curbing these activities fostered and helped by Pakistan. In Maharashtra the Naxal attacks have come down by about 20 to 22 per cent and their activities are now restricted to Gadchiroli district only. New recruitment in the ranks of Naxalists has also stopped the Minister said. He also said that the government has not allowed any Rohingya refugee to illegally enter the Indian territory and killed 193 terrorists in Kashmir so far.


    Maharashtra Chief Minister Shri Devenra Phadanvis and senior thinker Shri Indresh Kumar also spoke on the occasion. Lt. General Vishvambhar Singh was also present on the dais.


    The parents of the martyr Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan were giving a standing ovation when they entered the hall during this programme. A special tribute Maharashtra Police Constable Tukaram Gangaram Omble was paid in the form of a documentary screened on this occasion.


    GRC/PM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510903) Visitor Counter : 258