      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      "Tehrike Talim" campaign to get affordable, accessible and quality education for all including minority - Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi
      Posted On: 27 NOV 2017 2:57PM by PIB Mumbai


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that there is a huge gap between South Indian states and North Indian states in terms of accessible, affordable and quality education for students belonging to Minority communities.


    Shri Naqvi said that the Modi Government has been working with commitment to end this gap by providing affordable and quality education to students of all sections of the society including Minorities.


    Shri Naqvi said that while on one hand, there are better education facilities and resources for Minorities in South India, on the other hand there is a lack of such facilities in North.


    Shri Naqvi said that the Ministry of Minority Affairs is working with utmost sincerity to end this gap so that every Minority community student can get affordable, accessible and quality education. For this, we are going to start the "Tehrike Talim" campaign. Minority Affairs Ministry is spending about 65 percent of its budget on educational empowerment and skill development of the Minorities.


    Shri Naqvi said that the Ministry of Minority Affairs is working with commitment to welfare of Minorities through "3E - Education, Employment, Empowerment". Shri Naqvi said that in the last about six months, thousands of educational institutions of all Minority communities including Madarsas, have been included in the mainstream education system by connecting them with "3T-Teacher, Tiffin, Toilet".


    Shri Naqvi said that to provide world-class modern education to the Minorities, the Ministry of Minority Affairs is establishing 5 world-class educational institutions across the country. 100 Navodaya type schools will also be set up across the country. "Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Centres" are being set up in 100 districts across the country where various courses related to job-oriented skill development are being provided.


    Shri Naqvi said that schemes of the Minority Affairs Ministry such as "Hunar Haat", "Seekho aur Kamao”, "Nai Manzil”, "Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Scheme”, "Nai Roushni” have proved to be an important step towards the skill development of minorities. In last about 3 years, these schemes have succeeded in providing employment and employment opportunities to more than 50 lakh people from Minority communities.


    More than 1.5 crore students have been given various scholarships by the Ministry of Minority Affairs. More than 3 lakh applications have been received for “Begum Hazrat Mahal Girls Scholarship”. In order to encourage the girls of minority community for higher education, the Central Government will give Rs 51,000 as “Shadi Shagun” to those girls who will complete their graduation.


    Shri Naqvi said that during the last about 3 years, under the Multi Sectoral Development Programme, in the minority dominated areas, 4377 health centres, 37068 anganwadi centres, 10649 drinking water facilities, 32000 additional class rooms, 1817 school buildings, 15 degree colleges, 169 ITIs, 48 polytechnics, 248 multi-purpose community hall “Sadbhav Mandap”, 1064 hostels, 27 Gurukul type residential schools have been constructed.


    Shri Naqvi said that our policy of "Empowerment without Appeasement" has ensured that the Minorities are also becoming an equal partner of the country’s development process. Shri Naqvi said that participation of Minorities in Central Government jobs, which was about 5 percent in 2014, has gone up to 10 percent in 2017.


    Shri Naqvi said that in this year's Civil Services exam, about 100 Minority youth have been selected, out of which 52 are from Muslim community. There has been an increase of about 90 percent in the number of Minority communities’ candidates selected in civil services. For the first time since Independence, the minority community candidates have been successful in the civil services in such a large number. This is the effect of our “Empowerment without Appeasement” policy.


    During his Mumbai visit, Shri Naqvi attended a function at Anjuman-e-Islam Karimi Library. He also visited Anjuman-e-Islam's M.H. Sabu Siddik Polytechnic Campus and also inaugurated Dialysis Centre in Pandit Mane Garden, Nagpada.


    Source - Minister's Office

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510973) Visitor Counter : 536