      Ministry of Defence

      WEEK-LONG INDEPENDENCE DAY CELEBRATIONS AT AIR FORCE STATION BAGDOGRA
      Posted On: 07 AUG 2018 4:17PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 07, 2018.


    To mark the 72 nd Independence Day of our nation, Air Force Station Bagdogra is going to organise a series of events starting with the inauguration of “Freedom Adventure Carnival” at its newly developed EAC Nodal Centre’s Adventure Park on August 09, 2018. The adventure park is among one of the largest in the world with more than 62 land, air and water adventure activities. The carnival will be inaugurated by Smt Santosh Chaudhary, President Air Force Wives Welfare Association (Local). Air Commodore Manu Chaudhary, Air Officer Commanding, Air Force Station Bagdogra will be the Chief Guest for the closing ceremony on August 15, 2018.


    Students above the age group of 12 years from Air Force School Bagdogra will also be given basic theory and practical training on disaster management and rescue drills during the week-long Freedom Adventure Carnival. They will then be exposed to the exciting activities of adventure sports like power hang gliding, parasailing, zorbing, rappelling, para motor and rock climbing etc among others.


    Air Force School Bagdogra, in its efforts to organize this mega event aims to imbibe in youth the spirit of adventure, expose students on disaster rescue and management procedures, instil self-confidence and motivate them to join the armed forces apart from aiming to break the national record for organizing the largest adventure activities for students, presently held by Alliance University, Bengaluru with 40 adventure activities by 1805 participants.


    Air Force Station Bagdogra will also organize a static display named “Know Your Forces” for the students of schools, colleges and general public. The event will showcase air power capabilities of our country through static display of the IAF assets like aircraft, missile system among others, on August 11 and 12, 2018. The static display will be open for public and students from 10 am to 5 pm on August 11, 2018, and from 9 am to 1 pm on August 12, 2018.


    ************


    SSS/bb/Kol…………

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541911) Visitor Counter : 1