      Ministry of Finance

      GST to be further simplified, says Principal Economic Adviser in Finance Ministry
      Posted On: 06 AUG 2018 12:21PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 4, 2018


    After continuous interventions and process correction measures, GST has now attained a structure which is much better than it was previously. It will be simplified further and one round of simplification has already been done two weeks ago where white goods have been placed in a lower tax bracket, informed Sanjeev Sanyal, Principal Economic Adviser to the Union Ministry of Finance at Kolkata today. The problems related to export refunds and system error has been resolved, he further informed while addressing at Bharat Chamber of Commerce session.


    “This continuous course correction process is complicated since these are mostly state taxes for which states have to be taken into confidence”, he further mentioned while speaking this major reform implemented by the Union Government. He commented, “In future, GST may become simple enough to have one tax bracket for all commodities. But for that to happen the taxpayers base has to improve. Direct taxes will also have to be simplified in the future. These changes will have to be implemented sequentially. ” In this connection, he mentioned that the Government has withdrawn many if its tax related litigations just about two weeks ago. Further, speaking about Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), the implementation of which he referred to as “creative destruction” to set about rules, he mentioned that NCLT had resolved 50 cases of bankruptcy in 270 days. The Government is working on setting up an infrastructure with insolvency professionals to deal with bad debts that cause huge NPAs to banks. The Principal Economic Adviser also said that these processes are working on a feedback and iteration based system. “Minimum Government, Maximum Governance” will be implemented with a mechanized and Artificial Intelligence-based framework in the future, he said. He also commented that Government needs to work upon legal and administrative reforms in the days ahead.


    The Principal Economic Adviser to the Union Finance Ministry also iterated that “India is ready for a radical change” because of which demonetization could take off. He also spoke about having a more dynamic urban planning policy in the country.


    *****


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541695) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali