      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      NILD holds media sensitization seminar on differently-abled Experts call for increased and balanced coverage of divyang persons
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2018 11:48AM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August, 01, 2018


    Senior administrative and media experts have underlined the need of increased and continuous coverage of differently-abled persons in print, audio and other electronic media to ensure proper implementation of provisions laid in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act-2016. This view emerged at an interactive seminar held on Media and Disability organized on Tuesday in Kolkata by the National Institute of Locomotor Disabilities (Divyangjan). Administrators from the West Bengal Social Welfare Department, senior media persons addressed the event aimed at promotion of neutral and regular depiction of differently-abled persons in media coverage.


    Addressing he opening session, NILD Director, Dr. Abhishek Biswas dealt upon the rehabilitation, treatment and financial aid related schemes and facilities available at and extended by NILD to the physically challenged persons. He requested the participating media representatives to highlight these facilities on regular basis for welfare of the masses.


    During the interactive session, Shri Gautam Das, Dy. Director in the State Social Welfare Department conducted an audio-visual session on the RPWD Act. Briefing the media persons about the renewed guidelines to promote greater inclusion and welfare of differently-abled persons, Shri Ajay Mhamia, Dy. Director, PIB said, the administration and media need to act in coordination to ensure implementation of all the provisions of the PRWD Act which direct that all content available in audio, print and electronic media should be in accessible format for all. The differently-abled persons, as per the Act, should be extended easy access to electronic media by providing audio description, sign-language interpretation and close captioning in the telecast. Besides, Shri Mhamia clarified; all wings of media have to implement these directives laid out in the Act latest by December, 2018, the timeframe set for implementation in the Act. Senior journalist and Press Club president, Shri Snehasis Sur appealed the media fraternity to desist from the stereotype depiction of the differently-abled persons in their coverage. Reports promoting such persons’ inclusion and welfare should be covered regularly without reflacting any stigma or a super-hero approach in such presentation, he advised. Shri Amit Ekbal, Assistant Director, NILD also addressed the event.


    Shri Himanshu Srivastava, Media Officer, NILD, who coordinated the event, was advised by the specialist speakers to continue such media outreach programmes on regular basis.


    National Institute of Locomotor Disabilities (Divyangjan), an autonomous institute under the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) of the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, works in the field of rehabilitation of persons having locomotor disabilities such as polio, congenital deformities, neurological conditions, amputee, post-traumatic, post-sports injury-disabilities, geriatrics, degenerative conditions and leprosy, etc. The institute is well equipped with modern and sophisticated equipment. It provides therapeutic services to indoor and outdoor patients and imparts specialist teaching and training in physiotherapy. NILD also promotes related research projects.


    *****


    AM/MSA/bb/Kol………

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541212) Visitor Counter : 3