      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Jalpaiguri Media Workshop: Officials including Lead Bank managers depict implementation of Centrally-sponsored welfare schemes
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2018 5:31PM by PIB Kolkata


    Jalpaiguri, West Bengal, August 8, 2018


    Project officials and District Lead Bank managers gave details of achievements in implementation of various developmental and welfare schemes, including Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana, Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana and other projects at a day-long media workshop ‘Vartalap’ held at Jalpaiguri today. Also briefing the media about the successful funding of women Self Help Groups, who have refunded 95% of their loan amount, the Chief Manager of the district Lead Bank Central Bank of India, Shri Debjit Sarkar, said the bank has been successful in expanding its coverage of beneficiaries in Jalpaiguri district. Other senior officials including the Financial Literacy Official of the Lead Bank, Shri Subhash Dutta, addressed the interactive session of the event highlighting various schemes including Beti Bachhao- Beti Padhao and Swachha Bharat Mission.


    Shri Ajay Mhamia, Deputy Director, PIB, Kolkata explained the nationwide PIB initiative of organizing district level media workshops throughout the year. Answering media queries requesting PIB intervention and help in redressal of their issues such as nonpayment, underpayment, lack of social security and non issuance of accreditation cards, Shri Mhamia reiterated that the union government always promotes self regulatory mechanism of the media and, therefore, such issues should be taken up by various media organizations and district press clubs for speedy redressal. Veteran Journalist Shri Jyoti Sarkar and Shri Pulakesh Ghosh, highlighted utility of press releases and write-ups and official data issued round the clock by PIB in context of the journalists working at the district-level. They urged their counterparts in print and electronic media to work in constant coordination with such agencies to disseminate authentic info.


    Answering media queries and issues raised by the district Press Club secretary , Shri Pradip Sarkar, the Deputy Director of PIB, Kolkata, Smt Chitra Gupta clarified that one line motto of such workshop is to enlighten the masses through media with regard to their welfare measures taken by the Union Government. Smt Gupta conducted the event and moved the vote of thanks. Shri Santanu Sinha gave an audio visual presentation of PIB utilities, including the diversified multilingual pages of reference matter that has been made available on the revamped PIB website.


    Under the ongoing series of such workshops, the next event is scheduled to be held at Darjeeling on August 10, 2018.


    *****


    CC/AM/CG/Jalpaiguri

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542106) Visitor Counter : 24
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali