      Ministry of Earth Science

      Geological Survey’s Marine Exploration Division discovered huge volumes of limemud and marine sand that will benefit industry
      Posted On: 23 AUG 2018 7:02PM by PIB Kolkata


    - Kolkata, 23 rd August, 2018


    The Geological Survey of India (GSI) has discovered potential zones of high grade limemud and limesand off Gujarat and Maharashtra coasts that is capable of fulfilling steel industry’s requirement for blast furnace and chemical grade and chemical grade limestone which are presently being met from imports, informed Director General of GSI Dr. Dinesh Gupta in Kolkata today. GSI’s research vessel Samudra-Ratnakar explored the deposits in Arabian Sea and found 72 thousand million tonnes of limemud from an area of 6603 square km. Providing a detailed explanation, Dr Gupta stated, the high grade limemud resource is located at 80-100 km from the western coast at a depth of 55 to 120 metre beneath sea, corroborated the marine geologists involved in this project. In furtherance of this discovery, study of the chemical nature of limemud at Regional Mineral Processing Laboratory in Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM), Bangalore revealed its suitability for cement and filler industries, flux in blast furnaces in steel plants and steel melting shop. Certain industry bodies have expressed interest in the newly explored limemud deposits, stated the DG. The potential zones of high grade limemud and limesand falls within the Indian Exclusive Economic Zone off Gujarat and Maharashtra coasts.


    In another vital breakthrough achieved by the marine exploration wing of GSI, 745 million tonnes of construction sand resource has been delineated off Kerala coast. The sand resource is located in four blocks off Ponnani, Chavakkad, Alleppey and Kollam, falling beyond 10 km from the shore and at a depth of 30 metres approximately below sea level, except the deposits off Kollam where the water depth is between 50 and 70 metres. This discovery will highly benefit the construction industry in Kerala which is looking for an alternative to qualitatively inferior manufactured sand. Mining of offshore sand will be environmentally and commercially viable, feel the scientists of marine exploration division.


    In today’s press meeting, Dr. Dinesh Gupta stated that the premier geoscientific organisation under the Ministry of Mines is set to double its exploration target to 400 project areas in 2019-20.


    *****


    CC/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543747) Visitor Counter : 30
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali