      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Clean Piped Water to every house is our next Target : Prakash Javadekar
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2020 3:06PM by PIB Mumbai


    There are total 6000 Jan Aushadhi Kendras in country and daily more than 2 lakh people benefit out of it. People have fondly started calling it shop for cheaper medicines, said Minister of Information & Broadcasting and Environment, Forest & Climate Change Prakash Javadekar while speaking with people in Sassoon Hospital, Pune on the occasion of Jan Aushadhi Diwas. Later Prime Minister interacted with People of Pune through Video conferencing.


    Resident of Pune, Ms Zeba Khan who is beneficiary of PM Jan Aushadhi Kendra spoke with Prime Minister on this occasion and narrated her experiences about usefulness of Jan Aushadhi Kendras.


    Shri Javadekar said, due to Jan Aushadhi kendras prices of medicines have come down. The medicines which used to cost 87 rupees are now available for 24 rupees. The cost of sanitary napkins has come down from 10 rupees to one rupee. Moreover the costly medical implants like stents now cost only 37,000 rupees instead of earlier 1,64,000. 50 crore people will benefit from Ayushman Bharat scheme. 90-95 lakh people so far have taken treatment under the scheme.


    By promoting Indian lifestyle of Yog and through various schemes like Fit India present government is looking for all round approach towards public health.


    Shri Javadekar further said that 18000 villages which were in darkness since Independence were provided electricity in record time in last 6 years. 12 crore toilets were also built. Mission Indradhanush is taking care of immunization of people.


    “Har Ghar Nal se Swachh Jal” is our next ambitious project. Government has also opened 35-40 crore bank accounts and so money goes directly into beneficiaries accounts without leakages”, Minister said.


    Member of Parliament, Shri Girish Bapat and Dean of Sassoon Hospital Dr. Ajay Chandanwale were also present on this occasion.


    DJM/MC/DR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605654) Visitor Counter : 136
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi