      Ministry of Shipping

      Mumbai - the first metropolitan city in India to introduce Ro-Pax service to its transport infrastructure
      Posted On: 15 MAR 2020 2:03PM by PIB Mumbai


    Ro-Pax M2M1 Ferry Vessel has commenced operations between Mumbai and Mandwa today, in the presence of Union Shipping Minister Shri Mansukh Mandaviya. Ro-Pax Ferry, a ferry that combines the features of a cruise ship and a roll-on/roll-off service, has come much to the relief of daily commuters, job seekers and holiday-goers travelling between Mumbai and Mandwa and also other parts of Alibaug. With this, Mumbai becomes the first metropolitan city in India to introduce a RoPax service to its transport infrastructure.


    "RoPax M2M1 is an all-weather ferry. Hence the service will be open throughout the year", said the Union Minister, while talking about the new initiative to control road traffic, pollution and cost of commutation.


    Ro-Pax service enables people to ferry along with their vehicles on board, between Mumbai and Mandwa. With this, Mumbai, Alibaug and the adjoining Konkan region will experience a boost in tourism, hinterland connectivity and also job opportunities.


    When asked about the steps taken by the government in controlling the spread of novel corona virus due to infection by international travellers, the Minister said "Shipping Ministry is taking all necessary actions to control and prevent the spread of coronavirus, by screening passengers at every port. The centre and all state governments are working together in this fight."


    Maharashtra Maritime Board and Mumbai Port Trust have joined hands with M2M Ferries Private Limited (MFPL) in bringing this brand-new Ro-Pax vessel, by utilising Mumbai’s waterways more effectively.


    The Ro-Pax vessel, acquired from Greece, was built in September 2019 with the capability of carrying 500 passengers and up to 145 vehicles per trip between the purpose-built terminals at Ferry Wharf, Mumbai and Mandwa, Raigad that offers a world-class ferry service. The ferry service will run every 3 hours daily. Tickets can be purchased from the counters at Ferry Wharf, Mumbai and Mandwa Jetty, Alibaug. Passenger fares for outer deck seating is Rs. 225, indoor (AC) seating is Rs. 335 and VIP lounge is Rs. 555. The website www.m2mferries.com for online bookings will be operational from March 19, 2020.


    ***


    DJM/MAS/DL


    Follow us: @PIBMumbai /PIBMumbai

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606450) Visitor Counter : 433