      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      National Skill Development Corporation’s partner software firm Salesforce will create more than 5 lakh new jobs: IDC Report
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2020 6:12PM by PIB Mumbai


    The National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) under the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) has partnered with software firm Salesforce to enhance skill development and capacity building. Through this partnership, NSDC and Salesforce aim to empower learners and educators, regardless of socio-economic background, to skill up for the jobs of tomorrow with innovative content, presentations and training resources. The partnership also entails reaching out to colleges and universities to adopt NSDC’s wide array of courses and engage with students through the Trailhead platform. Salesforce will create 5,48,400 new jobs and $67 billion in new business revenues in India through 2024, according to IDC report.


    MSDE actively pursues global partnerships at G2G level with the aim of promoting global mobility, strengthening the Indian skilling ecosystem, and sharing of knowledge with other developing economies. MSDE and NSDC have entered into partnerships with countries namely UAE for benchmarking of qualifications, and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) for Skills verification programme . Under the partnership with UAE, NSDC is working with Abu Dhabi Quality & Conformity Council (ADQCC) and 15 Indian Qualification Packs have been mapped to 13 UAE Qualifications in the Construction and Automotive sector. Further, partnership with Japan has also been established under Technical Intern Training Program (TITP) to send interns from India to Japan for 3-5 years. Till date, NSDC has empaneled 31 Sending Organizations (SOs) to drive the agenda of training the youth to advance their careers through TITP.
    
    The Maharashtra Skill Development Mission which is functioning under the administrative control of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Department of Government of Maharashtra is the Nodal Agency for planning, coordination, execution & monitoring of Skill Development Initiatives of the State Government. All the Skill Development schemes of various Departments of the State Government including Industry-Institute linkages are integrated and coordinated by this Mission.


    This was stated by Shri R.K. Singh, Minister of State, MSDE, in reply to an unstarred question on Maharashtra’s Industry-Institute linkages in Skill Development Mission, in Lok Sabha today.


    
    ***


    DJM/SC
    

    
    (Release ID: 1606609) Visitor Counter : 175