      Ministry of Shipping

      Shipping Minister Shri Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurates several Infrastructure Projects at JNPT
      
      Projects expected to reduce logistic cost; improve EXIM trade

      Posted On: 14 MAR 2020 4:59PM by PIB Mumbai

    The Union Minister of State for Shipping (I/C) and Chemicals & Fertilizers, Shri Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurated various projects at Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) in Mumbai today. The projects inaugurated at JNPT stand in support of the government’s initiatives to improve Ease of Doing Business. The projects inaugurated include the Flyover at Y junction near PUB at JNPT, Centralised Parking Plaza, Mobile X-Ray Container Scanner and Augmentation of 220 / 33 KV Master Unit Sub Station. The infrastructure projects are expected to reduce logistic costs and also improve EXIM trade. Inaugurating the projects, the Minister said that these measures will enhance the proceedings and smooth functioning of JNPT and that they are in line with the Government's commitment to uplift the maritime sector.


    Mobile X-Ray Container Scanner Facility: It helps in scanning the containers inside the terminal premises, thus enabling security agencies to take appropriate action before the container exits. The estimated throughput is 20 containers/hour. It will benefit trade as Direct Port Delivery (DPD) containers can be allowed directly from the Port.


    220/333KV Master Unit Sub-Station: The new MUSS has state-of-the-art 220 KV and 33 KV Gas insulated switchgears to have maximum power reliability. It is provided with Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and sub-station automation system, where information regarding any fault is made available on concerned engineer’s mobile phone, round-the-clock. Further, to have better control on sub-station operations, automated fire detection, alarm system and CCTVs are deployed.


    Centralized Parking Plaza (CPP) helps to integrate the parking of Tractor Trailers (TT) carrying factory-stuffed containers for exports at one location and enables completion of pre-gate entry formalities under single window system. This will ease the movement of container trucks on JNPT roads and helps to plan TT movements in a better way.


    Fly-over at Y Junction: The 830 metre long fly-over near Public Utility Building (PUB) has 600-metre approaches on both sides. It will help faster evacuation of cargo and will avoid criss-crossing of the Gateway Terminals India Pvt. Ltd. (GTIPL) out-container traffic with north-bound in-containers for Jawaharlal Nehru Port Container Terminal (JNPCT), the Nhava Sheva International Container Terminal (NSICT), and Nhava Sheva International Gateway Terminal (NSIGT)


    The minister also inaugurated the Shiv Samarth Memorial & Museum, near Jasai-Dastan Phata, Uran in honour of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. It is a recreational facility project developed to promote art, culture and is intended to be an avenue for the society at large to stay connected with the local heritage. It houses a community hall, halls for exhibition and fort models, art gallery, audio visual room, cafeteria, amphitheater with a 250 seating capacity, garden and green rooms.


    About JNPT:

    The Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) at Navi Mumbai is the biggest container-handling Port in India accounting for around 52% of the total containerised cargo volume, across the major ports of India. Commissioned on 26th May 1989, in less than three decades of its operations, JNPT had transformed from a bulk-cargo terminal to become the premier container port in the country. Ranked 28th among the top 100 Container Ports in the world, JNPT is connected to more than 200 ports in the world.


    Currently JNPT operates five container terminals: JNPCT, NSICT, GTIPL, NSIGT and the newly commissioned Bharat Mumbai Container Terminals Private Limited (BMCTPL). The Port also has a Shallow Water Berth for general cargo and another Liquid Cargo Terminal which is managed by BPCL-IOCL consortium.


    ***


    DJM/DL (source: JNPT)


    Follow us: @PIBMumbai /PIBMumbai

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606415) Visitor Counter : 216
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi