      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      3 Lakh poor families in Pune will get ration for 2-3 months in advance: Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar
      
      Punekars will make PM’s appeal for Janata curfew a success: Prakash Javadekar

      Posted On: 21 MAR 2020 5:04PM by PIB Mumbai

    “Arrangements are being done to ensure that 3 Lakh poor families get ration for 3 months in advance. This will be a great respite to them. We also discussed further steps to be taken in this fight. Prime Minister has appealed for Janata Curfew tomorrow. I think it is very important for the country. I am sure that hundred percent Punekars will respond to the appeal and make it a great success. Our success in the fight against corona lies in that”, said Union Minister of Environment, Forest & Climate Change and Information & Broadcasting Shri Prakash Javadekar, after taking a meeting of Pune officials on Corona preparedness through video-conferencing.


    He further said, “the whole world is grappling with Corona challenge. With lot of awareness, India is also a part of this battle under the able leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. PM is taking review of all the states and CMs of all the states are taking review of all the districts in their states. Since I hail from Pune, I took the meeting of all the officials of Pune today. I took a stock of things and I am very happy that officials from Pune are doing very good work. A public movement will be created by appealing to the people to reduce traffic, to remain in homes, to avoid crowding in offices, to ensure supply of essential goods, to ensure temporary closing of shops selling non-essential goods.”


    The minister further added, “We have to understand that it’s a very grave situation, but there is no need to be afraid. However there is a need to be extremely cautious. Everyone knows the rules of being cautious. Such as, washing hands frequently, not touching face unnecessarily, maintaining social distance, avoiding crowding, postponing non-essential tasks for 15 days.”


    Shri Javadekar further said that, “These things are in the interest of our own lives only. I congratulate Pune officials who have done thorough analysis. All the patients in Pune are those who came from abroad, they de-boarded at Mumbai and then reached Pune via vehicle. Hence all the people entering Pune are going through police checking first, police give them instructions, doing their primary test. Then they can continue onward journey to Pune or even further towards Solapur, Kolhapur etc. Officials have put good system in place to screen the people entering the city. They have made arrangements for beds as well as treatment facilities for those who show symptoms of the disease.”


    “Government offices are following the guidelines about 25% attendance. It is also being ensured that factories in Pimpri-Chinchwad area have only minimum necessary people working in them. I also enquired about the expectations of Pune officials from central government, and I will take follow up of co-ordination activities with central ministries like Civil Aviation, Railways, Health and I&B ministry”, the Minister concluded.


    पूरा विश्व #COVID_19 के संकट से झूझ रहा है। भारत भी प्रधानमंत्री @narendramodi जी के नेतृत्व में बहुत जागरूकता से इस लड़ाई में शरीक है। आज मैंने पुणे के सभी अधिकारियों के साथ वीडियो कॉन्फ़्रेंसिंग के द्वारा #COVID_19 रोकने के लिए किए गए विभिन्न उपायों का जायजा लिया।@PIB_India pic.twitter.com/onaiQ25qqI

    — Prakash Javadekar (@PrakashJavdekar) March 21, 2020

    Divisional Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar, District Collector Shrhi Naval Kishor Ram, Pune Municipal Commissioner Shri Shekhar Gaikwad, and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Commissioner Shri Shravan Hardikar were present in the videoconference meeting with the Union Minister.


    ***


    DJM/MC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1607497) Visitor Counter : 279
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi