      Ministry of Communications

      India Post Mumbai striving to provide uninterrupted service to people during 21-day lockdown across the nation
      
      Online financial services active, cash pension amounts to senior citizens being home-delivered, emergency services being provided without interruption

      Posted On: 25 MAR 2020 2:59PM by PIB Mumbai

    Presently, the entire world is experiencing the outbreak of Coronavirus (COVID 19) pandemic with Mumbai being the worst affected city in India. Government Agencies across the world are doing their best to control the spread of COVID 19 and minimize new cases.

    India Post, Mumbai, along with the other government organizations, has been striving to provide uninterrupted service to people even in the time of complete lockdown of 21 days effective from today till 14.04.2020, by keeping the online financial services active and agile. Currently, India Post, Mumbai is offering online payment facility for services like PLI Premium payment, Recurring Deposit, Sukanya Samridhi account and deposit of money in India Post Payment Bank accounts.


    India Post, Mumbai is striving to home deliver the cash pension amounts to the senior citizens, without delay so that in this time of emergency, aged and elderly people do not need to step out of their houses and may stay in complete quarantine.


    India Post, Mumbai is keeping all Head Post offices, along with Mumbai GPO, across the city open to provide uninterrupted emergency services ; Bombay Central H.O, Mahim H.O, Kalbadevi H.O, Dadar H.O, Chembur H.O, Andheri H.O and Borivali H.O, being a few of the lot.
    As per latest report, Dadar H.O has done 3 fresh transactions on 24.03.2020; out of which 2 S.B accounts and 1 SSA have been opened.


    Postmaster General, Mumbai Region, Ms. Swati Pandey has instructed to keep all postal ATMs well stocked so that people having ATM card of any bank may access the postal ATMs in case of necessity (only ATM situated in Andheri H.O could not be kept active due to serious technical flaw).

    India Post Mumbai prays for the safety and good health of one and all.

    ***


    DJM (Source - India Post Mumbai)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1608075) Visitor Counter : 1326
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi