      Ministry of Railways

      Western Railway and IRCTC reach out and serve needy people during nationwide lockdown
      
      Around 5000 meals served over two days from Western Railways’ Mumbai and Ahmedabad Base Kitchen to needy people affected by Covid-19 lockdown
      
      Dy. CTI at Bhavnagar station spends own money to provide ration and essential items to licensed porters who are out of work due to lockdown

      Posted On: 30 MAR 2020 9:02PM by PIB Mumbai

    : Mumbai, March 30, 2020


    In the wake of the lockdown in our country due to the coronavirus pandemic, Western Railway along with IRCTC have reached out to many needful people, serving them with provision of food packets, ration packages and other essentials. IRCTC has geared up its base kitchens in Mumbai and Ahmedabad stations for preparing distress meals in huge quantities for the poor and needy people in and around Mumbai and Ahmedabad.


    Staff from various departments of Western Railway such as the Railway Protection Force (RPF), Commercial staff and the IRCTC have voluntarily come forward. General Manager of Western Railway, Shri Alok Kansal praised these employees who have gone beyond their call of duty and have shown such exemplary act of kindness in these testing times. However, he has also given a word of caution to them to take all preventive and necessary safety measures and hygiene levels to be practised.


    Dal Kichidi being prepared at Mumbai Central Base Kitchen to feed the poor people affected by the lockdown


    Around 1500 Meals comprising of Dal Khichdi Pickle were prepared by IRCTC on Sunday (March 29, 2020) from their Base Kitchen at Mumbai Central for distribution whereas 2880 and 1037 meals were prepared at Mumbai & Ahmedabad Base Kitchens respectively for distribution today (March 30, 2020). These simple and hygienic meals were made available for onward distribution through the channels of NGOs and Railway’s Commercial staff and RPF personnel to the needy/destitute /poor & stranded amidst the Covid-19 epidemic. Major NGOs to whom Khichdi meals were supplied from Mumbai Base Kitchen are Salaam Mumbai, Robinhood Army, New Future Foundation, Mariyam Trust & Nanhi Kali. Mariam Trust distributed Khichdi in Mariamanagar located at Worli, Mumbai whereas Nanhi Kali distributed the meals outside KEM hospital, Tata hospital and also in slums around there. The food prepared by Ahmedabad Base Kitchen was distributed by the RPF & commercial staff to around 600 needy persons.


    Food distribution at Mumbai Central Station


    Western Railway has informed that this socially responsible gesture on part of IRCTC and RPF shall continue in the forthcoming days also and the numbers are expected to rise. Several NGOs and Trust Funds have also extended their generosity to help the needy across the Western Railway jurisdiction. At Vasai Road, the Gurdwara Prabandhan Commitee distributed Khichdi to around 50 to 60 needy people including House-keeping staff. Due precautions, usage of PPE and social distancing norms were strictly observed while distributing the food. The people were also briefed regarding the do's and don'ts of COVID 19.


    Food distribution at Worli Station


    Food distribution at Vasai Road Station


    A few railway personnel have also voluntarily come forward to serve such needful persons in their vicinity by spending from their own pockets. One such striking example is that of Shri J.K. Sumara, Dy. CTI at Bhavnagar station of Western Railway. He has taken a great initiative in helping licensed porters who are now without any source of income and has distributed provisions & other essential goods worth ₹10,000 to the Licensed Porters at Bhavnagar station. Each care package was worth Rs. 550 and each porter was also helped with a cash amount of Rs. 500 as well. At Botad station, a few railway employees along with the locals, distributed Roti, sabji and buttermilk to some 100-odd needy people and have assured that this noble deed will be continued. At Nagda station of Ratlam division, RPF personnel distributed food packets in the nearby slum areas which comprised daily wage labourers. The Railways as well as the railway employees are extending their help to the needy in the event of a national crisis, even though there is a complete stoppage of passenger-ferrying trains. On the other hand, Railways is also running goods train, milk van trains and now even parcel van trains to help transport essential commodities to different parts of the country. This will ensure the supply of basic essential commodities to the citizens of the country.


    Lady porters at Bhavnagar station along with bags containing monthly grocery materials distributed to them


    ***


    DJM/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1609392) Visitor Counter : 190
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi