      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Quality priority is a way to world markets
      Posted On: 08 NOV 2019 4:05PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    8 th November, Ahmedabad: QCI jointly with FICCI organised its 9th Regional Quality Conclave (RQC) at Crown Plaza, Ahmedabad on the theme “Quality Enablers for Manufacturing Competitiveness & Trade.” The Conclave had 3 interesting Sessions on: Enablers for Competitiveness, Innovation & Quality in Manufacturing, Accreditation & Certification –Assuring Quality and Facilitating Trade and Measures for Achieving Manufacturing Excellence.


    The Inaugural Address was given by the CEO NBQP, Mr.C K Biswas wherein he welcomed the delegates and said that the purpose of organising this Conclave in Ahmedabad is that we want to make people of the state aware about the importance of quality by adopting a quality culture. He encouraged the gathering to always think of innovation regarding improvement of quality.


    While addressing the gathering Mr. Shyam Bang, Chairman, NABCB/QCI and FICCI Task Force on Manufacturing Excellence said, ‘’More than Quality, Quality systems are important. We at QCI and FICCI focus on Quality Systems to ensure that quality products and services are delivered to the citizens.’’


    ‘’Understanding customer’s quality needs brings competitiveness through giving maximum value for money for the customers’’ said Mr Deepak Mehta, Chairman, FICCI Gujarat State Council.


    Speaking on the occasion Mr Sunil Parekh, Co-Chairman, FICCI Gujarat State Council said that there is much work that industry themselves have to do to succeed in the area of global competitiveness.


    Other dignitaries who graced the occasion were namely, Mr Anupam Jalote, CEO, International Centre for Entrepreneurship and Technology (iCreate); Mr Rajkumar Jagyasi, Chief Operating Officer (COO), Milacron; Mr Sunil Shukla, Director, Entrepreneurship Development Institute Of India (EDII); Mr Nikunj Thakkar , Co-founder, DataOne Innovation Labs; Mr Rajesh Maheshwari, CEO, National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies (NABCB); Ms Poonam Gupta , Assistant Director, NABCB; Mr M M Singh, Executive Advisor, Maruti Suzuki; Mr Bhaskar Chhabra , Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt Ltd; Mr Aviral Chopra , Head - HUL Manufacturing Operations; Mr Nital Zaveri, CEO, Concept Business Excellence Pvt Ltd; Mr Anoop Goel, Head – RPO & General Manager (Inspection), Engineers India Limited; Mr Naveen Pilania, General Manager - Operational Excellence, Zydus Group and Mr Virat Dhebar, Assistant Vice President (Academy Division), TUV SUD South Asia.


    The vote of thanks was given by Mr. C K Biswas, CEO, NBQP. More than 250+ delegates attended the Conclave making it a huge success.


    DS/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591055) Visitor Counter : 90
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati