      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      ON LINE ENTRY OPENS FOR 16th MIFF-2020
      Posted On: 19 NOV 2019 12:05PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Online entry of films in different competition categories of the 16 th MIFF-2020 (Mumbai International Film Festival for Documentary, Short Fiction and Animation films), being held from 28 th January to 3 rd February, 2020 at Films Division complex, Mumbai, is now open. Film makers from abroad can enter films in International competition categories while Indian filmmakers can submit entries in International and National competitions.


    The oldest and largest festival for non-feature films in South Asia, MIFF attracts film makers from all over the world, thanks to the quality of films showcased in the competition and other sections apart from cerebral interactive sessions, workshops and master classes held over a week. Cash awards worth Rs 49 lakhs, Golden Conch, Silver Conches, Trophies and Certificates await winners in different competitions including technical categories. The Best Documentary of the Festival carries Golden Conch and Rs. 10 lakhs cash award. The festival will honour a veteran personality from the Indian documentary fraternity with the prestigious V Shantaram Lifetime Achievement Award that carries a cash component of Rs. 10 lakhs, trophy and citation.


    The response to the 15 th MIFF was overwhelming, signifying a vibrant documentary culture in India and the world. 15 th MIFF received a record 793 entries, with 197 films from 32 countries in International Competition and 596 films in National Competition. The 15 th MIFF was attended by a number of prominent documentary and short film makers from India and other parts of the world. The jury of the festival hailed from Canada, France, Philippine, Turkey, etc. Under Retrospective Section, animation films of Kozi Yamamura (Japan), Ivan Maximov (Russia), Bhimsain Khurana (India) apart from works of Dominique Dubosc (France) and Madhushree Dutta (India) had been showcased. Under special packages, Urgent Cinema of Santiago Alvarez, Documentaries by Filipino Women, Anima Mundi Films (Brazil), Turkish Animation, Stories from South Asia (SAARC), CMS Vatatvaran, etc. were showcased apart from Student films from FTII, SRFTI, Whistling-wood, Rohtak Institute of Film & Television and MGR Government Film & TV Institute.


    The 16 th edition of the biennial event, organized by the Films Division, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India is supported by the Government of Maharashtra. The main venue is Films Division complex, 24-Pedder Road Mumbai while the opening and closing/award functions will be held at the Nehru Centre Auditorium, Worli on 28 th January and 3 rd February respectively from 5.00 pm, informs Ms Smita Vats Sharma, Director General Films Division and Director, MIFF.


    For entering films on line, film makers can log on to www.miff.in . The Festival Directorate can be approached for more information at miffindia@gmail.com .


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592129) Visitor Counter : 1830
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati