      PIB Headquarters

      President of India presents president’s colour to the Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala
      Posted On: 20 NOV 2019 4:38PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, presented the President’s Colour to the Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala, Kerala today .


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that India is a maritime nation, with a long coastline. We have several islands on either coast, acting as our national outposts, and of utmost strategic value. A significant proportion of our trade and energy needs are met through the medium of the oceans. Safety of the seas and maritime commons, therefore, remains a critical requirement to ensure the economic and infrastructure development on land, as also to ensure well-being of its people.


    The President said that we live in a digital age and the battles of tomorrow will also be fought in the domain of information and technology. Cadets of the Indian Naval Academy, as technical graduates, would be expected to stay ahead of the technology curve to be better prepared to respond when required. He urged them to fully utilise their training at the Academy, to be better leaders in the complex and uncertain world of tomorrow.


    Shri Arif Mohammed Khan, Hon’ble Governor of Kerala, Admiral Karambir Singh, PVSM, AVSM, ADC, Chief of the Naval Staff, Kerala State Minister for Ports, Museums, Archaeology and Archives, Shri. Ramachandran Kadannappally , Vice Admiral AK Chawla, AVSM, NM, VSM, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Southern Naval Command, and other senior service and civilian dignitaries graced the occasion. The event was also witnessed by NCC Cadets of 32 nd Battallion, Kerala and children from Sainik School, Kodagu and local schools of Payyannur, besides the service and civillian personnel of INA. Indian Naval Ships Magar and Sujata and Indian Coast Guard Ship Sarathi were anchored off Ettikkulam Bay, to mark the momentous occasion.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1592414) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam