      PIB Headquarters

      DISTRIBUTION OF ASSISTIVE AIDS AND APPLIANCES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITES IN VILLUPURAM TOMORROW
      Posted On: 13 NOV 2019 5:33PM by PIB Chennai


    Central government has recognized differently abled persons as an integral part of Human Resource and is committed towards Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) in the country. Standing by the commitment towards empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) a camp for free of cost distribution of Assistive Aids and Appliances under the ADIP scheme of government of India held at District Polcie Ground ,Villupuram, Tamilnadu . The Camp organized by Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO), working under the aegis of Department Of Empowerment Of Person with Disability(Divyangjan), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India in close association with District Administration, Villupuram.


    ­The event with a large gathering of over thousand people was inaugurated by the Chief Guest Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, Hon’ble Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Government of India presided by Thiru C.Ve.Shanmugam, Hon’ble Minister for Law, Courts & Prison, Mines and Minerals ,Government of Tamilnadu in august presence of Dr.L Subramanian, I.A.S., District Collector ,Villupuram , Dr. Anbumani Ramadoss, Hon’ble Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha), Dr.Pon Gautham Sigamani , Hon’ble Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha), Thiru D .Ravikumar Hon’ble Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) and other dignitaries.


    A total of 2414 Persons with different kind of disabilities (Divyangjan) to be provided 4087 numbers of aids and assistive devices manufactured and distributed by ALIMCO valuing over Rs. 1.75 Crores (Approx.) under the ADIP scheme of Government of India in the camp. These beneficiaries were pre identified during the assessment camps conducted last year between 22 nd Oct to 12 th Nov, 2018.


    Modern contemporary Aids and Assistive devices were distributed in the camp which includes 23-Smart Canes, 7-Smart Phone for Visually Impaired 309-ADL Kits (includes cell phone) for persons affected from Leprosy .Among various other assistive aids and devices provided in the camp were 492-Tricycles, 279-Folding Wheelchairs,648-Crutches (Axilla and L-bow), 305-Walking Stick, 64-Rollators for Orthopedically Impaired persons 101-Braille Cane(folding) & Braille Slate, 01-Cervical Collar, 622-Behind The Ear – Digital Hearing Aid machines and 472- MSIED Kit (Multi Sensory Inclusive Educational Kit) for Children with Special Needs. Also in the camp 389 beneficiaries were facilitated with Prosthesis and Orthosis rehabilitation aids.


    Local representative, dignitaries and senior officers from the ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, District administration and ALIMCO were present during the function.


    **********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591471) Visitor Counter : 69
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil