      PIB Headquarters

      Financial Subsidy Schemes for MSME Sector
      Posted On: 19 NOV 2019 5:43PM by PIB Chennai


    Ministry of MSME, Government of India is implementing various financial subsidy schemes for the benefit of MSME sector. The schemes are as follows.

     1. ZED – Zero Defect and Zero Effect – This is a certification scheme. The MSMEs will be assessed for their process in achieving Zero defects in their products and processes. Similarly the process which they adopt for production should not affect the environment. There are three stages of assessment based on which the MSMEs will be graded for certification under five categories as Bronze, Silver, Gold, Diamond and Platinum. The cost of certification in grading shall be subsidized by GoI up to 80% of the expenditure and Rs. 5.00 lakhs grant given to interested MSMEs for Gap analysis, Handholding and consultancy for improving their rating and adopting measures for moving towards zero effect.
     2. LMCS – Lean Manufacturing Competitiveness Scheme – This scheme is to enhance the manufacturing competitiveness of MSMEs through the application of various lean manufacturing techniques. 300 mini clusters comprising of 6 to 10 units have been proposed all over India. Financial assistance up to 80% of consultant cost will be reimbursed to units on 20% sharing by units.
     3. Business Incubator – The objective of the scheme is to nurture knowledge based innovative business ideas which could be commercialized in one year. Any individual or MSME unit is eligible for the scheme. The scheme is being implemented through selected Engineering Colleges / IITs / NITs. Financial assistance to the tune of Rs.15 lakh per incubate per idea with margin money of 15% for Micro and Small units and nil for Students. Further, a seed capital assistance of up to Rs.1.00 crore as interest free loan for new enterprises is provided.

    Host Institute shall be provided a grant of up to Rs.1 crore for procurement and installation of relevant plant and machines including hardware and software.

     1. I.P.R – Intellectual Property Rights – The objective of the scheme is to build awareness on intellectual property rights (IPR) to MSMEs. All registered manufacturing MSMEs are eligible to avail financial assistance (i) Domestic Patent Rs.1.00 lakh (ii) Foreign Patent Rs. 5.00 lakhs (iii) GI Registration Rs. 2.00 lakhs (iv) Trademark Rs. 0.10 lakh
     2. DESIGN CLINIC – The objective of this scheme is to create a dynamic platform to provide expert solutions to real time Design problems and add value to the products. All Registered manufacturing MSMEs (individual or groups ) are eligible for financial assistance (reimbursement) up to 75% (micro) to 60% (SMEs) of the design consulation fee (15 to 40 Lakhs) for group up to three MSME applicants. Also financial assistance up to Rs. 1.50 lakh (75%) for final year student projects done for the MSME’s and Rs. 50,000 (25%) has to be borne by the MSMEs
     3. Digital MSME – The objective is to encourage and assist the potential MSMEs to adopt ICT tools and applications in their production and business process through cloud computing. All Registered MSMEs are eligible. A portal will be developed by the ministry in the areas of ERP, accounting, Manufacturing design and regulatory compliance including GST which will be offered for use by the MSMEs.

    All registered MSMEs having valid Udyog Aadhaar Memorandum (UAM) are invited to avail these benefits by applying through the website www.dcmsme.gov.in (or) through MY MSME app.


    For further details and assistance please contact, The Director, MSME Development Institute, 65/1, GST Road, Guindy, Chennai – 600 032. E’mail: dcdi-chennai@dcmsme.gov.in , Telephone: 044-22501011/12/13 according to a press release issued by the Director In charge, MSME DI, Chennai.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592243) Visitor Counter : 51
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

3.