      PIB Headquarters

      ICGS Aadesh tows stricken TN Fishing Boat to safety saves six lives at sea
      Posted On: 19 NOV 2019 6:14PM by PIB Chennai


    Indian Coast Guard saved six precious lives at sea undertaking a search and rescue (SAR) mission, app 70 nautical miles off Cape Camorin. ICGS Aadesh on patrol in Gulf of Manar was diverted to render assistance to fishing boat El Sahadai with six crew members onboard. The Tamil Nadu origin boat, was crippled at sea since 17 Nov following a suspected defect in its engine’s clutch assembly.


    Maritime Rescue Sub-Centre Tuticorin received the message of distress onboard of the boat late evening of 17 Nov 19. Sensing the urgency of distress ICGS Aadesh was immediately diverted to proceed towards the area and undertake Search and Rescue. The ship reached the area at about 0800hrs on18 Nov 19 and commenced search for the boat. Additionally, a Coast Guard Dornier Aircraft was also tasked to carry out a sea-air coordinated search for the stricken boat. The Dornier sighted the boat at about 1345 hrs on 18 Nov 19 and vectored ICGS Aadesh to her. The crew attempted to rectify the defect in the clutch assembly, but the engine failed to start. ICGS Aadesh provided logistics support and also made arrangements for further rectification on the engine, however the attempts were in vain. Therefore, at about 1630hrs on 18 Nov 19, ICGS Aadesh commenced towing the boat.


    Fishing boat El Sahadai safely towed to Colachel and reached Thengapattanam fishing harbour 0930 AM hrs today. The incident once again highlights the disadvantages of fishing boats venturing out alone. The fishermen are therefore, advised to undertake fishing in groups adhering to safe practices at sea and carry adequate lifesaving appliances and communication equipment onboard.


    During this rescue mission, the Coast Guard officials of the Coast Guard District Headquarters at Tuticorin were in constant communication with the boat owner and fisheries authorities, according to a press release issued by the PIB-Defence Wing, Chennai.


    ********


    

    
    (Release ID: 1592245) Visitor Counter : 25
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil