      PIB Headquarters

      Cannabis (Ganja)seized by Customs in foreign postal parcels. One Arrested.
      Posted On: 24 NOV 2019 4:40PM by PIB Chennai


    Based on intelligence that narcoticsubstances are being attempted to be smuggled from foreign countries through Foreign Postal Parcels,officers of Postal Intelligenceintercepted some postal parcels arriving from Canada, England & USA.


    On examination these parcels were found to contain green color dried leaves packed in multiple layers of vacuum compressed seal plastic bags. The samples of these leaves were sent for testing to Narcotics Lab, which certified them asCannabis (Ganja) aprohibited substance under NDPS Act 1985.


    During last three months Customs have seized 31 consignments of Ganja of various quantities totally weighing 4 kg from foreign postal parcels arriving from Canada, USA and England. During investigations it was found that in most of the cases the Consignee names provided to book the parcels were fake and in some cases consignees stated that their names were misused to book these parcels. One Parama Guru K (28) of Chennai who had placed order of 112 grams of Cannabis (Ganja) for personal consumption through Dark Web from the Canada on his friends address and had paid Rs. 45,000 in Bitcoin was arrested. Under NDPS Act purchase/consumption of narcotic substance in small quantity (upto 1 kg) may attract imprisonment of upto one year.


    These parcels were found packed in multilayer vacuum compressed plastic sealed covers and coffee powder was packed between them so as to avoid fragrance of Ganja. Further, it was found that these parcels were booked online and payments were made in Crypto currency such as Bitcoin and were booked in small quantities from Dark Web, a part of World Wide Web to evade detection by Law Enforcement agencies. It appears that the Cannabis is being smuggled in small quantity and meant for personal consumption. It is observed that relaxation given by some Western countries like Canada and some States of USA in the recent time in the use of Cannabis (Ganja) triggered the smuggling of Cannabis (Ganja) from these countries.


    Further investigations is in progress. According to the press release issued by Commissioner of Customs, Chennai International Airport.


    *******


    

    
    (Release ID: 1593300) Visitor Counter : 129
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil