      PIB Headquarters

      4 Kgs gold worth Rs. 1.56 Crore seized by Customs at Chennai Airport One Korean arrested
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2019 12:29PM by PIB Chennai


    On Thursday morning based on intelligence that gold is likely to be smuggled by some Korean passenger arriving from Honk Kong by Cathay Pacific flight CX 631, a special team comprising of officers of Customs officers comprising of Air Intelligence Unit and Rummaging & Intelligence Wing was formed and a special watch was kept in Customs area to nab the smuggler. During early morning officers noticed that one tall and well built male passenger was walking hurriedly in a rather suspicious manner towards the exit gate with his hand baggage . He was intercepted at the exit and questioned by officers as to why was he in a hurry and had he anything to declare. As the passenger became nervous and was evasive in his replies so he was taken for personal search along with his hand bags. From his passport he was identified as Chang Sic Ban (36), a resident of Seoul , Republic of Korea who had arrived from Hong Kong by Cathay Pacific flight CX 631. During his personal search when he was asked to remove his sports shoes, he became hyper tensed. Two unusually heavy packets wrapped in newspapers were found one in each shoe. On opening the packets two gold bars weighing 1 Kg each were found in each packet. Total 4 gold bars having foreign markings “ ARG UAE 1 Kilo 999.9 fine gold melter assayer” were recovered from his shoes. Total 4 gold bars of 24 K purity, weighing 4 kg valued at Rs.1.56 Crores were recovered. The same were seized under the provisions of Customs Act, 1962. He was arrested.


    During questioning Chang informed that he was a graduate in architecture but was working as a fitness trainer as he has a passion for fitness. He further informed that the gold was handed over to him by an unknown person outside Honk Kong airport. In Chennai he was to handover the same to some unknown person in the city who would identify him by his picture.


    Further investigations are under progress, according to the press release issued by the Commissioner of Customs, Chennai International Airport, Chennai .


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594164) Visitor Counter : 36
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil