      PIB Headquarters

      NAVAL PILOTS GRADUATE AT INS RAJALI, ARAKKONAM
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2019 4:37PM by PIB Chennai


    An impressive Passing-out Parade (POP) was held at Naval Air Station Rajali, Arakkonam to mark the graduation of the 93 rd Helicopter Conversion Course today, 29 November 19. Nine Indian Navy pilots were awarded the prestigious “Wings of Gold” by Rear Admiral K Jyothish Kumar, VSM, Flag Officer Commanding Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Naval Area. The pilots underwent rigorous flying and ground training for 20 weeks at the Indian Naval Air Squadron 561, the Helicopter Training School (HTS).


    During the course, the trainee pilots are introduced to several nuances of helicopter flying. The pilots undergo a challenging syllabus including navigation, night flying and operations over sea. At the end of the course, the trainees are adjudged for Best in Flying, Best in Ground Subjects and Best in Overall Order of Merit.


    After the ceremonial review, the Chief Guest awarded the Governor of Kerala Rolling Trophy to Lt Pritish Mehta for being adjudged as the Best All Round Trainee Pilot and the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Eastern Naval Command Rolling Trophy to Sub Lt Shantanu Misra for standing first in Order of Merit. A book prize was also awarded to Sub Lt Mageshvar R for standing first in Ground Subjects.


    The newly qualified pilots will be appointed to various front-line operational units of the Indian Navy where they will take on various missions such as SAR, Reconnaissance and Surveillance and Anti-Piracy patrols.


    In its rich heritage spanning almost five decades, INAS 561 (HTS) commanded by Captain Krishanu De has trained 724 pilots for the Indian Navy, Coast Guard as well as from friendly foreign navies till date. The school is located at INS Rajali Arakkonam, which is commanded by Commodore Shreerang Joglekar .


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594245) Visitor Counter : 154
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil