      Ministry of Rural Development

      RSETI Diwas 2017
      Posted On: 07 JUN 2017 6:59PM by PIB Delhi


    As part of multi-pronged strategy to address rural poverty, Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) is undertaking two initiatives in skill development under the National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM):


    (i) Placement linked skill development program called DDU-GKY which allows skilling and assured wage employment.


    (ii) Skill development through 587 Rural Self Employment and Training Institutes (RSETI) in the country, which provides skilling, thereby enabling the trainee to take bank credit and start his/her own Micro-enterprise.


    The Ministry today celebrated 4th RSETI Diwas in recognition of outstanding performance of RSETIs in various states. A total of 88 awards were given for the years 2014-15 and 2015-16 to best performing States, lead Banks administering RSETIs and Directors of RSETIs. Top performing States in different categories include Jharkhand, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Amongst Banks the top performers are State Bank of India, Canara Bank, Syndicate Bank, ICICI and Andhra Bank.


    Top performing RSETIs include training institutes of SBI Vijayanagaram, SBI Vishakapatinam, PNB Gaya, Canara Bank Halial and Davangere, Syndicate Bank Manipal and Meerut, Andhra Bank Srikakulam, ICICI Jodhpur and Udaipur, and RUDSETI Ananthapur and Bijapur.


    At present 587 RSETIs are functioning in the Country, covering 32 States/UTs with the participation of 37 Sponsor Banks. Over 22 Lakh unemployed youth have been trained by RSETIs and 13 Lakh of them are engaged in self-employment. Of these credit linkage has been provided to nearly 6 lakhs candidates.


    RSETIs have aligned their curriculum with Common Norms for skill development courses. It offers skilling in 56 NSQF aligned courses specially designed for entrepreneurship development.


    The 4th RSETI Diwas celebration was chaired by Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Minister, Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Drinking Water and Sanitation. He emphasised the need for increase in rural entrepreneurship for sustainable livelihoods. He also emphasised on how rural livelihoods playing a strategic role in development of the rural clusters. To carry forward this momentum he appealed to the Banks to give their cooperation.


    Dr. Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State for Finance, appealed to the Banks who have sponsored the RSETIs in their Lead Districts to develop these Centres as ‘Centres of Excellence’ in the field of Entrepreneurship development as also increase lending to the youth skilled in RSETIs.


    Shri Ram Kirpal Yadav, Minister of State for Rural Development lauded the role of RSETIs in the nation building exercise by capacity building of the unemployed youth throughout the Country.


    .


    The founder member of RUDSET Self-employment initiative, Dr D Veerendra Heggade, also participated in the event and blessed budding entrepreneurs’ success.


    <><><><><>


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492157) Visitor Counter : 219