      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh chairs meeting of various departments at the launch of ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ by DoPT
      Posted On: 16 JUN 2017 5:08PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh chaired a meeting of various departments at the launch of ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ by Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions here today. The Secretary DoPT Shri B. P. Sharma, the Chairman, Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Shri Ashim Khurana, Director, Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBASNAA) Smt Upma Chaudhary, Director, Institute of Secretariat Training and Management (ISTM) Dr Sunita H Khurana and senior officers from DoPT, SSC, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Central Information Commission (CIC), Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA), Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB), Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Central Vigilance Commission (CVC), Department of Expenditure, Department of Revenue, Department of Economic Affairs and Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation were also present in the meeting.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh said that Swachhta Pakhwda provides an opportunity to the DoPT to play a facilitating role in the observance of cleanliness activities. He said that Swachhta Pakhwda reiterates our commitment towards cleanliness. The Minister said that there is a need to change the mindset of the people for the success of the mission. Our attitudes, habits and behavioural patterns need to be changed, he added. Dr Jitendra Singh appreciated the LBSNAA’s efforts to involve IAS Officer Trainees in the cleanliness drive during their training. It will set an example before others and also provide inspiration to others, he added. He also suggested that the concept of ‘waste to wealth’ needs to be promoted and the waste should be disposed off in an efficient manner and should be converted to energy/compost wherever possible. The Minister emphasised that the ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ should not be limited to a particular time period, but should be a part of the regular activities.


    Secretary DoPT, Shri B. P. Sharma said that the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has desired that the Swachhta Pakhwada is not only for a particular department, but the department observing it should lead the whole Government in cleanliness activities and the effect should be felt across all the departments. He also briefed about the activities being undertaken by the DoPT during the observance of Swachhta Pakhwada.


    During the meeting, a presentation was given by Shri Akshay Kumar Rout, OSD, Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation, wherein it was suggested to undertake various activities like promotion of ‘zero waste office’ concept, offer Shramdaan by officials on every day basis, competition among officials/ trainees on sanitation and hygiene and Swachh Survekshan on cleanliness to rank all institutes and attached offices. Officers from other departments also gave their inputs on cleanliness activities.


    At the launch of ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ by DoPT earlier today, special cleanliness drive was undertaken by the officers and staff of DoPT at Khan Market area near the Lok Nayak Bhawan. The Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) has been declared ‘Swachh Academy’ for the fortnight during the Pakhwada. Smt Upma Chaudhary, Director, LBSNAA said that various activities on cleanliness are being observed in the Academy and nearby areas by the Officer trainees. She informed that cleanliness drive is an integral part of the training programme of the officers there. She said that during training, each IAS officer trainee has to adopt a village and make it as the open defecation free (ODF) village. She said that a Collector’s Conference on Swachhta is being organised on 29th -30th June at LBSNAA in coordination with Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation.


    The Swachhta Pakhwada is also being organised by the Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances from 16th June to 30th June, 2017. The Department will undertake various activities like recording, reviewing and weeding out of old records, digitization of records, disposal of old and obsolete items etc. It has also been planned to clean office premises, canteens, toilets, and surrounding areas adjacent to the building during the Pakhwada. A Poster(s)/Slogan Competition will be organised on the theme of Swachha Bharat on the occasion. The best workstation will also be declared in the Department and appreciation certificate will be awarded to the winner. The Department has also planned to utilise Rs 10 lakhs for Swachhta related activities in the department during the current financial year. MoS Dr Jitendra Singh shall visit the office premises at Sardar Patel Bhawan to see the implementation of the Swachhta Action Plan. Similar activities are being organised in DoPT also.


    *****


    KSD/NK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493079) Visitor Counter : 101