      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Swadhar Greh
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2020 4:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has reviewed the implementation of Swadhar Greh Scheme to provide institutional framework for women victims of difficult circumstances through several meetings/video conferences with the State Governments/UTs, and conducted the inspection of Swadhar Greh during the year.


    The Swadhar Greh scheme envisages monitoring of the implementing agencies at District, State and Central level. Swadhar Grehs are monitored continuously by a District Monitoring Committee where at least two members are women, the district committee meets at least once in a quarter. Monitoring Committee at State level meets at least twice a year and monitors the projects. Continuation of grant to any agency depends on the satisfactory performance as assessed by the State/UT level Committee. Ministry of Women and Child Development also reviews the functioning of the Swadhar Greh at regular intervals with the State Governments/UT administrations.


    The details of Swadhar Greh being established by the Government and Non-Government Organisations during the last three years, district-wise is as under:


    2016-17


    Andaman and Nicobar

     1. Directorate of Social Welfare

    2017-18


    Meghalaya


    1. Women Social Welfare Organisation, Nongstoin


    2.Reach Shillong Ministries, Shillong


    2018-19


    Mizoram

     1. Swadhar Greh, C/o Social Welfare Department, Lunglei District
     2. Swadhar Greh, C/o Social Welfare Department, Kolasib District
     3. Swadhar Greh, C/o Social Welfare Department,Vairengte District
     4. Swadhar Greh, C/o Social Welfare Department, Champhai District
     5. Swadhar Greh, C/o Social Welfare Department, Siaha District
     6. Swadhar Greh, C/o Social Welfare Department, Lawngtlai District
     7. Swadhar Greh, C/o Social Welfare Department, Mamit District
     8. Swadhar Greh, C/o Social Welfare Department, Serchhip District
     9. VOLCOMH, 2 nd floor, CYMA Building Tuikhuahtlang, Aizwal

    Nagaland

     1. Nagaland Voluntary Health Association, Kohima District.

    This information was given by the Minister of Women and Child Development, Smriti Zubin Irani, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602404) Visitor Counter : 705
    
    
    
    
    

1.