      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Revision of Packages under Ayushman Bharat Yojana
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2020 12:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The implementation of Ayushman Bharat- Health and Wellness Centres has been reviewed and States/UTs have been oriented by conducting four regional workshops in the year 2019. The synthesis report of these workshops is available in public domain at https://nhm.gov.in/index1.php?lang=1& level=1&sublinkid=1161&lid=649.


    Continuous assessment and monitoring of the Ayushman Bharat – PradhanMantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) is undertaken on real-time basis. A dashboard with various key performance indicators has been designed to constantly monitor the scheme. The performance of the scheme is objectively evaluated in terms of cards issued, number of hospitalization cases, quality of treatment provided, timely payment of claims etc. On the basis of this, suitable action in terms of changes in the process flow, IT system, guidelines for implementation of scheme are undertaken.


    As on 04.02.2020, total 21,789 hospitals have been empaneled under the AB-PMJAY including 10,032 hospitals belonging to private sector. Services for 51% of the total hospital admissions, as on 05.02.2020, have been provided by the private service providers.


    AB-PMJAY was launched with 1393 packages including one unspecified surgical package. After the launch of Scheme, feedback from various stakeholders on different aspects of AB PMJAY including Health benefit Packages (HBPs) was received. Accordingly, an exercise to rationalise the benefit packages was undertaken. Eight (8) specialist committee were set up to provide their inputs and consultation meetings were conducted with subject experts for rationalisation of health benefit package. Following the due procedure, recommendations were presented before the Governing Board of National Health Authority for approval. The Governing Board has approved rationalized HBPs as HBP 2.0 for the Scheme.


    As on 31.12.2019, total 9,112 private hospitals were empanelled under AB-PMJAY. Services at AB-HWCs are free and universal to all individuals residing in the service area.


    AB-P MJAY is an entitlement-based scheme and there is no requirement of registration or enrolment of beneficiaries . Around 10.74 crore beneficiary families identified as per Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) database, are entitled for benefits under the scheme.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602352) Visitor Counter : 521
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu