      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar unveils India/Bharat 2020
      Posted On: 19 FEB 2020 3:56PM by PIB Delhi


      Union Minister Prakash Javadekar today unveiled Annual Reference India/Bharat 2020. Speaking on the occasion the Minister said “the book is a complete reference manual for all people including those appearing for competitive examinations.” The Minister congratulated Publications Division for coming out with this publication. He said the book has become a tradition and is becoming popular by the day.


      Shri Javadekar also released the e-version of the publication during the occasion. The e-version can be accessed on a variety of devices such as tablets, computers, e-readers and smart phones. The e-book conforms to the best international standards technically and is a faithful replication of the print version. The e-INDIA has a variety of reader friendly features for better communication like hyperlinks, highlighting, book marking and interactivity.


      The book will be priced at Rs 300.00 and the e-book will be available at Rs 225.00. The books can be purchased online from 20 th February, 2020 from the website of Publiciations Division at the link


      https://www.publicationsdivision.nic.in/index.php?route=product/pbook


      The books can also be brought from Amazon and Google Play Store.


      The function was attended by Shri Ravi Mittal, Secretary, Ministry ofInformation and Broadcasting; and other senior officers of the Ministry.


      About the Book


      
      The Reference Annual – India / Bharat -2020, carries exhaustive and comprehensive information about India and the activities, progress and achievements of various Government Ministries / Departments / Organisations during the year. It is the 64th edition of the compilation. Brought out jointly by the Publications Division and New Media Wing of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting India / Bharat 2020, is a much awaited annual publication especially for the aspirants of competitive examinations.
      
      The Annual deals with all aspects of country’s development – from rural to urban; from industry to science and technology to human resource development. The volumes give a glimpse of flagship programmes of the Government; important events of the year. Over the years it has earned a well-deserved pride of place for researchers, planners, policy makers, academics, media professionals, not to forget the job seekers.


      The Publications Division is a repository of books and journals highlighting subjects of national importance, India’s rich cultural and literary heritage. Since its inception in the forties, it is publishing books in English and Hindi as well as in all major Indian languages at affordable prices.


      In the last few years, the Publications Division has brought out quality books on varied subjects along with literature and literary figures. Such subjects apart from bringing freshness into the repertory make it readable and free from the constraints of topicality.


      Publications Division has more than 2000 digitized titles. At present, the Digital Archives has a repository of over 2185 titles. Out of these 405 e-books were put up for sale through various platforms like Amazon and Google Play. Over 35,000 copies of e-books have been sold. Further, DPD also expanded its presence on digital publishing by increasing the total number of titles available to more than 370 on various e-commerce websites in a searchable format downloadable on various electronic devices along with other basketful of user-friendly features.


      Reference Cover Images


      **********


      SC/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603622) Visitor Counter : 4808
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil