      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      DD Free Dish Set Top Boxes distribution launched by Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar
      
      DTH and Cable Networking has revolutionized the outreach system in the country to disseminate Information Education and Entertainment – Javadekar

      Posted On: 22 JUN 2019 5:02PM by PIB Chandigarh

    Union Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change and Information & Broadcasting Shri Prakash Javadekar and Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of Development of North East Region; Minister of State PMO; Minister of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions; Department of Atomic Energy; Department of Space Dr. Jitendra Singh today launched a spectrum of initiatives for the state of Jammu and Kashmir. In a vibrant launch ceremony held at SKICC, Srinagar Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Shri Satya Pal Malik and both the Ministers in presence of other dignitaries distributed Doordarshan’s Free Dish Set Top Boxes in Jammu and Kashmir besides launching half an hour Dogri programme and News Bulletin from DD Kashir and the signature tune of the channel.


    Addressing the gathering, Shri Prakash Javadekar appreciated the efforts of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting especially Doordarshan for reaching out to the public in border areas to disseminate the message of Information, Education and Entertainment. He said that after the basic necessities, Information and entertainment are the most important needs of the people and the Central Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is taking all the steps to reach out to the people to ensure these facilities.


    Lauding the role of All India Radio, the Minister said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has very ably utilized the services of such medium through Mann Ki Baat which has now become very popular. Shri Javadekar said that Doordarshan and All India Radio have a credibility which gives these channels an edge over the others who sometimes get carried away with rumors. Doordarshan is an institution of trust, he further added.


    MoS PMO, Dr. Jitendra Singh appreciated the efforts taken by Doordarshan to reach out to the people throughout the country. The launch of Dogri programme and News bulletin will go a long way in bringing sense of pride and oneness among the people. He termed Doordarshan as a single channel that can bring hearts together.


    Governor of Jammu & Kashmir Shri Satya Pal Malik while addressing the audience said that the people living in border areas will surely get benefitted with this initiative. The problems of the youth of the state need to be addressed in order to bring in peace and prosperity in the region. He impressed upon Doordarshan and All India Radio to keep spreading out to the remotest of corners to provide information to the last mile.


    Chairman, Prasar Bharati, Dr. A. Surya Prakash while addressing the audience highlighted the qualities of DD FREE DISH DTH and termed it as the tools of empowerment. He laid emphasis on the commitment of the Government to bring peace and prosperity across the region.


    Secretary, Information & Broadcasting, Shri Amit Khare, Director General, Doordarshan Ms. Supriya Sahu, Chief Secretary, Government of Jammu and Kashmir BVR Subrahmanyam and other State and Central Government officials were also present on the occasion.


    This Set Top Box will be provided free of cost and the audience will be able to view 100 channels for free. The News Bulletin will be telecast daily at 6:00 pm on DD Kashir on digital mode. The signature tune, which resonates with the spirit of the valley, has been composed by Rahul Sharma.


    SNP/GA/MP/AAN/Srinagar

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575307) Visitor Counter : 1449
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Punjabi