      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Swachh Survekshan Grameen launched in UP, Jharkhand and Maharashtra
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2018 3:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The Swachh Survekshan Grameen 2018 (SSG 2018) announced by the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation on July 13 th , 2018, was launched by three States this week.


    Under the SSG 2018, an independent survey agency will conduct the survey in all districts from 1st to 31st August 2018, and the results will be announced in the form of a ranking of all districts and States on the basis of quantitative and qualitative sanitation (Swachhata) parameters. The top performing States and Districts are expected to be awarded on 2nd October 2018.


    Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, launched the SSG in Lucknow today. Speaking at the occasion, the Chief Minister called upon the people of Uttar Pradesh to step out and clean their villages and surrounding areas with pride, underscoring the importance of Swachhata for health and dignity of the people of Uttar Pradesh. He said that the SSG was a golden opportunity for the people to come together and make Swachhata a daily habit across villages of UP.


    Earlier today, the Chief Minister of Jharkhand, Shri Raghubar Das, launched the Survekshan in Ranchi. Speaking at the occasion, the CM asked the people of Jharkhand to ensure that the State gets the top position in the Grameen Survekshan just as it did in the Urban Swachh Survekshan. He asked District Officials to popularise the survey and ensure that people are aware of the survekshan and participate actively in it, through an intensive communication campaign launched in the State.


    Earlier this week, Shri Babanrao Lonikar, Cabinet Minister, Water Supply and Sanitation Department, Government of Maharashtra, launched SSG 2018 in Maharashtra at an event in Pandharpur. At the launch, he appealed to the Gram Panchayats of Maharashtra to prepare for an excellent performance during the Survekshan. He recalled the great tradition of the State in making social campaigns successful through active community participation and called upon the one million Varkaris gathered at Pandharpur on the occasion of Aashadhi Ekadashi to play a leadership role in this.


    Secretary, Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Shri Parameswaran Iyer, was also present at the launch in Lucknow. Speaking at the launch, he said that the objective of SSG 2018 is to undertake a ranking of States and Districts on the basis of their performance attained on key quantitative and qualitative SBM-G parameters. In the process, through a countrywide communication campaign, rural communities will be engaged in the improvement of the sanitation and cleanliness of their surrounding areas.


    As part of Swachh Survekshan Grameen 6980 villages in 698 districts across India will be covered. 34,000 public places namely schools, anganwadis, public health centres, haat/bazaars/religious places in these 6980 villages will be visited for survey. Citizens’ feedback will be collected from over 50 lakh citizens on SBM related issues through direct interaction as well as online feedback.


    <><><><><>


    AR/SNC/SD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539805) Visitor Counter : 3121
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi