      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Not easy to change behaviour of open defecation of people : Babanrao Lonikar
      Maharashtra government successfully implemented Swachh Bharat Abhiyan

      Posted On: 11 AUG 2017 4:29PM by PIB Mumbai

    Maharashtra government has successfully implemented Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Till date 11 districts, 156 talukas and 18 thousand gram panchayats were declared as Open Defecation Free (ODF) said Babanrao Lonikar, Minister for Water Supply and Sanitation Government of Maharashtra.


    While addressing the curtain raiser of Swachhathon 1.0 in Mumbai today. The Minister said Gadge Maharaj, Tukdoji Maharaj promoted Cleanliness mission in the past, Mahatma Gandhi also focused on cleanliness and now PM Modi is leading this mission.


    The Minister said it is not easy to change the mindset of the people defecation in the open. This changed when lota confiscation started.


    He mentioned that in promoting the swacch bharat mission, radio bulletins have played a major role throughout the state of Maharashtra.


    On the occasion of curtain raiser of Swachhathon Smt. V Radha, Joint Secretary, Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin), raised important points like Monitoring usage of toilets, triggering behaviour change, toilet technologies in difficult terrains, working solutions for maintenance and operations of school toilets, technological solutions for safe disposal of menstrual waste and solution for early decomposition of faecal matter.


    What is Swachhathon 1.0 ?


    Swachhathon 1.0 – Swachhata Hackathon is an attempt to crowd source solutions for some of the pressing problems faced by the country in Sanitation and Hygiene. Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation invites students from schools and colleges, professionals, organizations, stratups and others to come up with exciting, innovative, novel and viable solutions in the categories like monitoring usage of toilets, triggering behaviour change, toilet technologies in difficult terrains, working solutions for maintenance and operations of school toilets, technological solutions for safe disposal of menstrual waste and solution for early decomposition of faecal matter.


    ****


    PIB/IJ(NS)


    

    
    (Release ID: 1499350) Visitor Counter : 432