      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      FTII’s Short Foundation Courses in digital cinematography, acting and screenplay writing rolled out in Mumbai
      Posted On: 17 AUG 2017 4:58PM by PIB Mumbai


    Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) and Films Division (FD), both media units under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, have come together to start short courses in Mumbai.


    Under a maiden joint venture, 3-week long Foundation Courses in Digital Cinematography, Screenplay Writing and Acting began today at Films Division premises in South Mumbai.


    Bhupendra Kainthola, Director FTII Pune and Ms Swati Pande, Director, FD launched the courses in the presence of Sh A. S Kanal, Course Director (Foundation Course in Digital Cinematography), Shri Vikas Sharma, Course Director (Foundation Course in Screenplay Writing) and Shri Chander Mohan Khanna, Course Director (Foundation Course in Acting).


    In his inaugural address, Bhupendra Kainthola, Director FTII Pune said, "The short courses movement under FTII's banner of SKIFT (Skilling India in Film and Television) which started as a trickle is now a torrent. The overwhelming response to the SKIFT courses, from Port Blair to Srinagar, from Jaipur to Delhi and Mumbai, shows the hunger for learning. FTII has long held position as a national front-ranker in film & television education. After partnering with the Directorate of Film Festivals in New Delhi and launching several short courses there, it was natural for FTII to collaborate with the Films Division to cater to the demand for such courses in Mumbai."


    In her address, Ms Pande said," Films Division enjoys a long reputation and experience in promoting India's documentary movement. Pairing up with FTII brings in a rare synergy while offering quality and affordable short courses. Together we will conduct more such courses".


    Of the 67 participants for the courses, 11 are women. The oldest participant is 73 yrs of age and the youngest 18. Besides Mumbai, Thane, Akola, Aurangabad, Nashik and Pune in Maharashtra, participants have come from Karnataka (Bengaluru, Manipal), Arunachal Pradesh (Changlang), Uttarakhand (Dehradun, Rudrapur), Bihar (Patna, Gaya), Jammu & Kashmir (Jammu), Punjab (Mohali, Ludhiana, Patiala), UttarPradesh (Pratapgarh) and Madhya Pradesh.


    Global digital imaging giant Canon is the Technology Partner of SKIFT. For technical support, Mumbai-based Yasuka and Studio Assist are the other partners. Their representatives were also present on the occasion.


    FTII's new outreach initiative SKIFT, with a mission to democratize film education by conducting short courses across the country, has seen Foundation courses in Film Appreciation, Screenplay Writing, Acting, Basic Acting Workshop for Children and Digital Cinematography being conducted in Mumbai, Delhi, Srinagar, Jaipur and Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Short courses are also on the anvil in other places, including Hardwar (Uttarakhand) from 23rd August 2017.


    Recently, FTII received approval from the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, to conduct skill-oriented short courses under the Special Project category of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY).


    PIBMUM/BG(APS)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499957) Visitor Counter : 464