      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Indian Culture represents ‘Humanity’- Governor Smt Mridula Sinha
      
      ‘Bhavanjali’, a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi through Bhajans, organized

      Posted On: 01 OCT 2018 9:00PM by PIB Mumbai

    Panaji, October 1, 2018


    ‘Bhavanjali’ A Shraddhanjali to Mahatma Gandhi through Bhajans on the eve of 150 th Birth Anniversary celebrations was organized today at Rajbahavan, Goa. Regional Outreach Bureau, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Government of India organized the program. Governor, Smt Mridula Sinha; Shri Sudin Dhavalikar, Minister for Public Works Department; Chief Secretary, Shri Dharmendra Sharma; and Vice Chancellor, Goa University Prof Varun Sahani were present on this occasion.


    Governor Smt Mridula Sinha, in her address appreciated the Bhajan performance of the troupe and felicitated all the members of the troupe of Regional Outreach Bureau, Pune. She said that Indian culture represents ‘humanity’ and Mahatma Gandhi is the pioneer in teaching human values to us. We need to follow the path of ‘non- violence’.


    Governor further said that, Gandhian Values are very much relevant in today’s era also. We need to transfer these values to next generation. Self-employment is Gandhiji’s teaching come in new way as ‘StartUps”. ‘Charkha’ was the symbol of self-employment, she added. Gandhiji’s priority was cleanliness. So, we all have to follow the teachings of Gandhiji to make our lives healthier, she further said.


    On this occasion, the book ‘Gandhi in Champaran’ by D. G. Tendulkar, was presented to the Governor by Smt Ermelinda Dias, Additional Director General, Press Information Bureau and Shri Santosh Ajmera, Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Pune.


    Shri Santosh Ajmera IIS welcomed the gathering and Smt Ermelinda Dias IIS proposed the vote of thanks. Deputy Director, PIB Goa, Shri Vinod Kumar IIS; Secretary to Goa Governor, Shri Rupesh Thakur IAS were also present.


    *****


    PIB Goa

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548204) Visitor Counter : 398
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi