      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Startup India Maharashtra Yatra is an affirmative step towards creating a confident and resurgent New India: Governor of Maharashtra
      
      True economic revolution is happening in India’s villages: Union Minister Shri Suresh Prabhu

      Posted On: 03 OCT 2018 2:53PM by PIB Mumbai

    True economic revolution is happening in Indian Villages and the agriculture sector offers huge potential for startups as well, said Union Minister for Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation, Shri Suresh Prabhu while flagging off the Startup India Maharashtra Yatra at Raj Bhavan today 3rd October, 2018.Organised under the Startup India initiative, ‘Startup India Yatra’ is a Tier 2/3 initiative that travels to small cities of the country in search of entrepreneurial talent, provide them an opportunity to get incubated, and help develop startup ecosystems.


    Addressing the gathering, Governor of Maharashtra, Shri CH. Vidyasagar Rao congratulated the Maharashtra State Innovation Society for organizing the Statewide Yatra and boot camps that will identify, groom and incubate the best innovative ideas. He said that the Yatra will give a chance to many young talented university and college students to realize their dream ideas that will eventually benefit the state and the nation.


    Shri Rao said that the Government realizes that startups are not just confined to big cities. Smaller towns and villages are also emerging as vibrant startup centres; the Maharashtra Startup Yatra is a journey to discover and nurture this talent.


    Letters of Intent were distributed on the occasion, to universities who would be setting up Startup Incubation Centres.


    Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Devendra Fadnavis said that as per some studies,the entire job market will witness an upheaval as fields like Artificial Intelligence will destroy 20 crore jobs and create 25 crore jobs which never existed before. He said it is high time we harness the tremendous energy of the youth towards innovation and entrepreneurship. He also said start-ups are a necessity as they not only make possible Ease of Living but also help in better utilization of resources. He said Maharashtra is the start-up capital of India and continues to attract maximum investment.


    Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister for Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation, Shri Suresh Prabhusaid that, a lot of churning has happened in the private sector in the last two decades and that companies which were nowhere in the big league are billion dollar companies now. Citing examples like Amazon, Apple and TCS, Shri Prabhu said that these companies are examples of what start-ups can achieve. It is important that hurdles like old rules and regulations are removed from the path of these start-ups in order to let them grow, he added. Similarly they need to be provided with improved market access; he said that Government’s e-marketplaceGeM will be helpful in this regard. He stated that GeM will record a turnover of $100 Billion in the next few years.


    The Minister said that in the month of December, round table meet of global investors will be arranged to attract more funds for start-up projects. He appealed to woman entrepreneurs to seek benefits of improved the investment climate. He said the day is not far when India will have its own industrial areas like Silicon Valley.


    Principal Secretary, Skill Development and Enterpreneurship, Government of Maharashtra, Shri Aseem Kumar Gupta said rural youth and especially youth from tier 2 and tier 3 cities have huge potential but they lack opportunities to prove themselves; he said that the next target for the Yatra which will cover 14 districts will be startups at the district-level.Shri Gupta appreciated the Government of India for giving an opportunity for the rural entrepreneurs to be heard, evaluated and mentored by experts from the market, through the Startup Yatra. Hesaid Maharashtra Virtual Incubation Centre will serve as a friend, philosopher and guide for budding entrepreneurs.


    Related: Month long Startup India – Maharashtra Yatra to begin from 3rd October


    ***


    DJM/MC/RDS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548328) Visitor Counter : 477