      Ministry of Textiles

      Union Textiles Minister attends interactive sesion held by FICCI FLO Mumbai Chapter
      Posted On: 11 OCT 2018 10:42PM by PIB Mumbai


    Union Minister for Textiles, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani today had an interactive session with members of FICCI FLO Mumbai chapter on a variety of subjects, including textiles and contribution of women towards economic growth of the nation. The Minister said that various schemes launched by the Government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi have changed the lives of women in a very positive way. She said that around 80% of Indian women have benefited from the two schemes, PM MUDRA Yojana and Startup India. She noted that these schemes give opportunities to young lady entrepreneurs to start their own enterprise, providing them adequate loan facility. She added that, if this trend continues, the MSME sector will emerge as a much bigger contributor to the national GDP. She cited Ayushman Bharat, PM Jan Arogya Yojana and Janani Suraksha Yojana as other schemes from which women have been benefiting significantly. Smt. Irani was interviewed by Editor, Fashion & Design Magazine, Smt. Shefali Vasudevan.


    On being asked about women’s health, safety and security, the Minister said that the government has introduced various laws to empower her, including those to protect her from sexual abuse. She said that women need to keep themselves aware of the laws and the judicial process, for their own empowerment. She exhorted them to work hard with passion and determination.


    Backgrounder:


    FLO is the women’s wing of FICCI. It is one of the oldest and largest women’s business associations in South East Asia. In India it has 15 chapters across the country, the member strength being 5,500. FLO’s purpose for this year is to lead women into believing and recognizing in their strengths, their unquestionable power and capability.


    ***


    DJM/BG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549538) Visitor Counter : 172
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi