      President's Secretariat

      President of India in Maharashtra; inaugurates Vishwashanti Ahimsa Sammelan
      Posted On: 22 OCT 2018 7:46PM by PIB Mumbai


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, inaugurated the Vishwashanti Ahimsa Sammelan at Mangi Tungi, Nasik, Maharashtra today (October 22, 2018). The event is being organised by the Bhagwan Shri Rishabhdev 108 Feet Vishalkai Digambar Jain Murti Nirman Committee.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that in the Jain tradition, the principle of ‘Ahimsa Paramodharma’ is distinguished for human welfare and compassion - not just for the absence of physical violence. He said that the teachings of Jainism are relevant at a time when violence is taking place in the name of religion. Stating that the 108 feet height of the statue sets a benchmark for the mankind too, he said people should follow the path of non-violence and focus on character.


    The President said that India has always been a strong proponent of non violence and peace. The President stated that various initiatives taken by the Central government such as providing homes to homeless, building toilets, giving banking facility to the unbanked, Namami Gange, providing gas connections to poor women and the recently launched Ayushman Bharat scheme seek to empower citizens and mitigate the harmful effects of man's actions against nature.


    The President said that Bhagwan Mahavir gave special importance to ‘Apirigraha’ - not taking what is more than essential to live. Humankind is exploiting nature indiscriminately. Ruthless consumption and accumulation of resources is increasing. Due to this, phenomena like climate change are emerging as challenges. Following the Jain tradition shows us a way out, he said.


    The President said that teachings of Bhagwan Rishabhdev are very relevant even today; they enable cordial relationships among various religions and communities. He said that the land of Maharashtra is the land of social harmony, spirituality and goodwill. He said that the spiritual and political leaders like Sant Tukaram, Sant Namdeo, Guru Ramdas, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Mahatma Jyotiba Phule and Dr. B. R. Ambedkar gave the message of social harmony and love for the nation. The President also congratulated Chief Minister Shri Devendra Fadnavis and Governor Ch. Vidyasagar Rao for completion of four years of the current Maharashtra government.


    After recalling the nobility of the concept of Ahimsa, Union Minister of State for Defence, Dr. Shubhash Bhamre expressed the need for the state government to declare drought in various regions of the state where there has been deficient rainfall. He also requested the Chief Minister to grant 257 crore rupees for the development of Mangi Tungi and adjoining areas.


    Addressing the gathering, the Chief Minister Shri Devendra Fadnavis said that the 108 foot high statue of Bhagwan Rishabhdev is the most powerful symbol of the values espoused by the Jain Guru. He also said that the philosophy of Ahimsa demands that we protect and honour nature, and that we are facing various issues of climate change due to humanity's not following these timeless principles.


    Responding to Dr. Bhamre's request for declaring drought in rainfall-deficit areas in the state, the CM said that the state government is close to taking a decision to declare drought in the 179 talukas being referred to. He added that the Government would take various supportive measures in light of the prevailing situation, such as waiving off electricity bills.


    ***


    DJM/RDS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550682) Visitor Counter : 284