      Ministry of Culture

      Space Debris is a serious problem, concerted efforts needed to solve this problem: Russian Pilot - Cosmonaut
      
      Need for joint efforts by countries such as Russia, India and China for the success of space exploration: Mikhail Kornienko

      Posted On: 25 OCT 2018 4:11PM by PIB Mumbai

    The problem of space debris is very serious and International Space Mission has also suffered from it, said Mikhail Kornienko during Rosatom Festival of Science and Culture, being organized by Nehru Science Centre, in Mumbai during October 25 - 26, 2018. The Festival is being organized in New Delhi too, during October 27 – 29, 2018.


    Mikhail Kornienko was on a year-long mission aboard International Space Station from March 2015 to March 2016; he is one of 13 astronauts and cosmonauts who lived aboard the space station for a year.


    Mr. Kornienko said that Indian and Chinese space programmes are making great progress and that there is need for joint efforts by countries such as Russia, India and China for the success of space exploration. He also said that there is scope for higher participation in space science, of private sector players from India and Russia. Talking about the involvement of media and entertainment sectorsof both countries in the efforts to popularize space science, he stressed on the need to move away from sensationalism and breaking news and focus on popularizing space science among the general public. He opined that the next manned space travel for research will take 15-20 years.


    During the festival, Associate Professor at National Research Nuclear University,Olga Momot and Professor of Biotechnology at National Research Nuclear University, Elena Sarapultseva will deliver lectures at IIT Bombay and Nehru Science Centre,on electricity generation from nuclear power plants as well as non-power application of nuclear technologies in medicine, agriculture and daily life.


    Rosatom Festival of Science and Culture will have a series of educational and scientific activities, giving an opportunity for attendees to experience Russian culture and get information about the latest developments in nuclear science and technology. It will contain talks, readings, workshops, contests and cultural activities. World-famous dance ensemble “Kalinka” will also be performed during the festival.


    Vice President of Rosatom in India Mr. Andrei Lebedev said the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant in India is a symbol of Indo-Russian relations.


    Backgrounder


    ROSATOM has the world’s largest portfolio of nuclear power plant construction projects and has world’s largest uranium reserves. It ranks 4th in uranium production and covers 17% of the global nuclear fuel market.


    ROSATOM and Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd(NPCIL) jointly implement Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant in Tamil Nadu.


    ***


    DJM/MC/RS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550733) Visitor Counter : 384