      AYUSH

      Ayurveda is highly relevant in management of modern world diseases: Shri Shripad Naik
      Posted On: 26 OCT 2018 5:09PM by PIB Mumbai


    In order to bring Ayurveda into mainstream healthcare, the strengths of Ayurveda for elective, sustainable and safe pain management required to be highlighted to the scientific world. The role of Ayurvedic interventions is highly relevant in management of modern world diseases and illnesses like Hypertension, Cardiac Disorders, Pain Management Stress, said Minister of State(I/C) AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik while speaking on 4th International and 12th National seminar of Association of Ayurvedic Practitioners (AAPCON) 2018 in Mumbai today.


    AYUSH System of medicines has assumed great significance with the emergence of lifestyle related diseases. Over the past few decades, Ayurveda has become highly popular in USA and European countries, due to its unique, holistic and human ethos and has an approach towards positive health as well as disease management specifically in the treatment of many chronic problem believed to be otherwise incurable, Minister said.


    Shri Naik further said, many concepts and practices Ayurveda are unique and it receives acceptance and support from the general public, as well as the global scientific and medical community. The focus of integration has to shift to collaboration between practitioners in the interest of the patient. We need to establish Integrative Clinical Centres where practitioners of Modern Medicine and Ayurveda will cooperate and work as a team to provide the best care for a patient.


    Integration of Ayurveda, Homoeopathy, Unani in National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular disease and Stroke (NPCDCS) programme in selected districts, Swasthya Rakshan Programme through Research councils, and various collaborative research projects initiated by CCRAS are few examples of recent initiative taken by the Ministry for fostering the research in AYUSH systems. India Central Council for Research in Ayurveda Sciences has begun the publication of a peer reviewed Journal of Research in Ayurvedic Sciences which will serve as an important window of sharing research outcomes from Ayurvedic community, he added.


    Shri Naik further said the Government attaches priority to maintain standards of education. Ministry of AYUSH aims to develop, establish and upgrade AYUSH Educational Institutions to the levels of Excellence for providing better medical practitioners as well as better healthcare facilities to the public. For this, Ministry of AYUSH hasmadebiometric attendance system compulsory for teaching and non-teaching college staff and hospital staff.


    Further, the Ministry of AYUSH has instructed to all the State/UT Governments and Universities to admit students in AYUSH undergraduate uses on the basis of merit list of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) only. All India AYUSH Post Graduate Entrance Test (AIAPGET) has already been introduced for PG Admissions from 2017-18 onwards. Steps has been taken to ensure that meritorious students come to the AYUSH stream The positive features of Ayurveda i.e. diversity and flexibility, accessibility affordability, have great potential to make it source of healthcare that the large sections of our people need.


    Ayurveda has great role to play in community health. It is a known fact that hugenumber of trained Ayurveda doctors is available in India. There is a need to channelize this resource in a constructive manner. Ministry of AYUSH under National AYUSH Mission NAM) provides support to the States/UTs for co- Location of AYUSH facilities in Primary Health Centres (PHCs). Community Health Centres (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHCs). The availability of multiple systems of medicine at a single wind provides an immense opportunity for cross-referrals which may eventually lead to the integration of different systems of medicine. In addition Ministry is also supporting the efforts of State Governments in setting up of upto 50 bedded integrated AYUSH hospitals in various parts of the country so that the people may get more AYUSH healthcare facilities.


    Association of Ayurvedic Practitioner is celebrate their 3-day international conference "AAPCON 2018 between 26, 27 and 28 October 2018 in Mumbai. In this conference more than 700 delegates are going to participate. In which majority of the delegates will be masters in Ayurveda. Dr Nilesh Doshi, organizing chairman & founder president of (AAPCON)has briefed the inaugural function.


    Secretary of Ministry of AYUSH Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, Advisor of Ministry of AYUSH Dr. D. C. Katoch were also present on this occasion.


    ***


    RT/IJ/MC/RDS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550890) Visitor Counter : 362
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi