      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Mushaira, based on Gandhian ideals, organised by Ministry of Minority Affairs in Mumbai today
      
      Governor of Maharashtra inaugurated poetic tribute to the Father of the Nation

      Posted On: 26 OCT 2018 8:36PM by PIB Mumbai

    As part of the commemoration of the 150th birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, a “Mushaira” was organised by Ministry of Minority Affairs, Government of India, in Mumbai today.


    The Mushaira was inaugurated by Governor of Maharashtra, Ch. Vidyasagar Rao. Union Minority Affairs Minister Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi; Member of Parliament Shri Gopal Shetty; MLA Shri Aashish Shelar were other dignitaries present on the occasion.


    Addressing the audience, Maharashtra Governor appealed to everyone to take conscious efforts to change the perception of Urdu among people. He said that there is a misconception that it is a language of Muslims, and that it is the language only of gazals, sher and shayari. Urdu is one of the sweetest and richest languages and is the “soul” of Mushaira, he stated. He further said that Mushaira will spread the essence of the principles of Mahatma Gandhi and promote socio-cultural harmony and brotherhood in society.


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs said that while on the one hand, these programmes will spread the message and principles of Mahatma Gandhi, on the other hand, such programmes will also strengthen social harmony and brotherhood in society. Shri Naqvi said that since ages, Urdu has been a proponent of humanity, principles and discipline. He said Urdu has played a key role in connecting people across the world. Remembering the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion of his 150th birth anniversary celebrations, the Minister said that Mahatma Gandhi is an idea, institution, culture and a thought, and the central government has organised a year-long programme in his honour.


    The “Mushaira” was based on the themes of the teachings and principles of Mahatma Gandhi, as part of the nationwide commemoration of the 150th birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation.


    Famous Urdu poets like Wasim Barelvi, Haseeb Soz, Manzar Bhopali, Mansoor Usmani (Nazim), poetess Dr. Naseem Nikhat, poetess Shabina Adeeb, poetess Nikhat Amrohvi, singer Salma Agha, Shri Shakeel Azmi, Qaiser Khalid and Col. Dr V P Singh gave strong messages of peace, humanity and unity through their poetry.


    Famous film director, producer and actor Annu Kapoor informed those present about the purpose of this “Mushaira”.


    A large number of people from political, social, cultural and other fields, intellectuals and youth were present to encourage the performing poets.


    On October 6, 2018, the Ministry had organised “Mushaira” at New Delhi, which was attended by thousands of people from all walks of life.


    ***


    DJM/ST/IJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550948) Visitor Counter : 477
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi