      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      AMBEDKAR CHAIR TO P.G. COLLEGE OF LAW, OU: SRI BANDARU DATTATREYA MINISTER OF STATE FOR LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT (I&C)
      Posted On: 03 MAY 2017 7:53PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Sri Bandaru Dattatreya, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment, Govt of India attended as Chief Guest for the valedictory function of First National Law Exhibition held here today. This exhibition was organised on the occasion of Osmania University Centenary Celebrations. While addressing the audience the minister said that the exhibition was very heart touching with 1,100 charts and 34 stalls. He said he was very pleased that the P.G. College of Law bagged the 9th rank in the country. Apart from this, the college has achieved a medal in the National Moot Court competition as well, Sri Dattatreya recalled. The exhibition was very enlightening and purposeful as it provided both education and awareness he added. The Union Minister assured that he would take up the matter of establishing Ambedkar Chair at the prestigious institution with the Centre. Girls are pursuing Law courses enthusiastically, Sri Dattatreya observed. The number of Women judges in the Supreme Court and High courts ought to have increased, he opined. Justice P. Navin Rao, Senior Judge- Judicature at Hyderabad- for the state of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana participated in the programme. Dr. G. Vinod Kumar, Principal, Post Graduate College of Law welcomed the gathering. He spoke in brief about the goals, benefits and the services the P.G. College of Law is rendering. Students of Law, faculty, legal experts have attended the event.


    Earlier, Justice B. Subhashan Reddy, Chairman Lokayukta for the State of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh inaugurated the National Law Exhibition on 1 st May. Justice Narayana, Sri B.S. Ramulu, Chairman, B.C. Commission of Government of Telangana, Sri Easwaraiah, Chairman, National Commission for Backward Classes took part in the inaugural function and spoke. Prof. G.B. Reddy gave keynote address. Social transformation and social justice is possible with the help of Judiciary, opined several speakers. Many stalls set up in the exhibition showcased important themes such as Women, Family and Child Welfare; Dalit Issues, Minorities and Backward Classes; Protection against Crimes-Legal Remedies available; Basic Amenities and Consumer Protection; Environmental Protection; Land Laws; Legal Literacy and Free Legal Aid; Constitution of India; Right to Information; Labour and Employment Issues; Cyber Crimes, ADR & Banking Laws; Human Rights Issues. After visiting Law Exhibition many a visitor came to know the fundamentals of laws concerned which made them responsible citizens. Visitors from various bachgrounds like students, colleges, homemakers, consumers, women, children and marginalised sections of socitey and others thronged the exhibition. 1,100 College students and faculty have played an active part in the organisation of the exhibition.


    ***


    

    
    (Release ID: 1489098) Visitor Counter : 64
    
    

      Background release reference

      valedictory function
      This link will take you to a webpage outside this websiteinteractive page. Click OK to continue.Click Cancel to stop : valedictory function