      PIB Headquarters

      FIRST REGIONAL WORKSHOP ON LABOUR MIGRATION & PRE-DEPARTURE ORIENTATION 30-31 MAY 2017, HYDERABAD
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2017 7:22PM by PIB Hyderabad


    A two-day workshop on ‘Awareness Generation on Migration & Pre-Departure Orientation’ is being jointly organized by Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and Government of Telangana in Hyderabad on 30-31 May 2017 at Dr. Marri Chenna Reddy HRD Institute.


    India Centre for Migration (ICM), the research think tank of Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in collaboration with International Organization for Migration (IOM) and Telangana Overseas Manpower Company Ltd (TOMCOM) of Government of Telangana are conducting the two-day workshop, which is an important follow up of the Ministry of External Affairs’ First ever State Outreach Conference held in Hyderabad on 13 May 2017 under the Videsh Sampark series on Consular, Passport and Diaspora Issues.


    Sri. Rajiv Trivedi, Principal Secretary (Home), Government of Telangana will inaugurate the workshop. The keynote address will be delivered by Sri. Sarat Dash, IOM’s Special Envoy to India & Bhutan. The valedictory session will be chaired by Sri. Rajat Kumar, Principal Secretary (Labour, Employment Training & Factories), Government of Telangana.


    Every year thousands of people migrate from Telangana, especially from districts such as Nizamabad, Karimnagar, Adilabad and Hyderabad to various destinations in Gulf for employment. The two-day workshop will focus on issues pertaining to recruitment of emigrant workers and their welfare and protection, pre-departure orientation & basic soft and language skills required for labour migrants who often become victims of exploitation. More importantly, the workshop will focus on the role of Government agencies and various programs/schemes of Government of India & the State Government available for the benefit of labour migrants.


    This is the first of its kind exercise being undertaken at the State level and would benefit a range of stakeholders including district employment officers, law enforcement agencies, recruitment agents, NGOs and other Community Based Organizations (CBOs).

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491251) Visitor Counter : 61
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu