      Ministry of Mines

      ‘VIKAS PARV’ ON 1ST JUNE IN HYDERABAD TO COMMEMORATE THE COMPLETION OF 3 YEARS OF NDA RULE AT THE CENTRE
      Union Minister Shri Bandaru Dattatreya to inaugurate the function

      Posted On: 30 MAY 2017 5:39PM by PIB Hyderabad

    During the last three years, several initiatives were taken by Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) viz. Introduction of ‘Shram Suvidha Portal’ to bring transparency and accountability in enforcement of labour laws and ease of complexity of compliance. While addressing the Media, Shri Swapan Kumar Dutta, Deputy Director General of Mines Safety (Additional Charge), South Central Zone announced that on the occasion of successful completion of three years of governance under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, all departments falling under Ministry of Labour & Employment, namely, DGMS, ESIC, EPFO, CLC(C) etc are jointly organizing ‘Vikas Parv’ at RavindraBharathi, Hyderabad on 1st June, 2017. The Vikas Parv will be inaugurated by Shri Bandaru Dattatreya, Union Minister for Labour and Employment, (Independent Charge). The programme will be focussing on the programmes and schemes implemented in Labour and Employment Ministry in particular and Government as a whole.


    During the last three years, several initiatives were taken by Directorate General of Mines Safety, namely, Introduction of Computer-Based Statutory Examination system for transparency and speedy disposal Shri Swapan Kumar Dutta said. Development of online system of dealing Permissions, Exemptions & Relaxations for ease of business, Introduced advanced mining technolgies in M/s. SCCL for better output with enhanced safety are some of the other initiatives, he explained. Simplification of Registers (56 Registers/Forms under 9 Central Labour Laws & Rules were reduced to only 5 common Registers/Forms) to lessen the compliance burden by establishments etc. We have organised 28 Awareness and Orientation Programmes for Working persons, Mine Owners and State Government Officials to aware them about consequence of silicosis and the provisions of safety laws to educate them to adopt safe mine practices, the Deputy Director General recalled.


    Medical camps were conducted Silicosis, Shri Swapan Kumar Dutta sadi. Silicosis is an untreatable occupational lung disease. Eight Medical Camps have been conducted in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Goa to check any person getting affected by silicosis. Encouraged and guided to establish Vocational Training Centres (VTCs) and Mobile training in un-organized mine clusters for development of skill in different types of works, inculcating safe working practices. One week orientation programme for supervisors from coal and non coal sector was conducted in South central Zone, DGMS for their skill development. Organised Child Labour Camps in almost all the districtsof Telagana , Andhra Pradesh, Maharastra and Goaforprohibition of employment child labour. Conducted workshop on Swatch Bharat in South central Zone, DGMS for creating awareness towards cleanliness in and around the office premises. Safety campaign in the form of safety weeks are being organised in the mines of organised and unorganised sectors in the states of Telangana , Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Goa to inculcate safety culture amongst the working persons. In support of Cashless Economy, 9770 Accounts have been opened in organized & unorganized mines by holding 52 camps in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh States.


    Dr. P.J. Sudhakar, Additional Director General, Press Information Bureau, Hyderabad said the NDA Government at the Centre under Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had implemented several reforms and path-breaking initiatives. ‘Make In India’, “Digital India”, Skill India, Beti Bachao- Beti Padhao are to name a few, he added. Many Pro-labour reforms were undertaken by Union Minister for Labour and Employment Shri Bandaru Dattatreya, he said. The Abolition of Child Labour Act, Raising the Maternity Leave to 26 weeks, Providing Wage security and Social security are some of the laudable steps, Dr. Sudhakar mentioned. Shri G. Vijaya Kumar, Director of Mines Safety, South Central Zone, Shri M. Narsaiah, Director of Mines Safety, South Central Zone have also participated in the function.


    DGMS is the Regulatory Agency under the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Government Of India in matters pertaining to occupational safety, health and welfare of persons employed in mines (Coal, Metalliferous and Oil-mines) as stipulated in the Mines Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed there few other allied legislation, including the Indian Electricity Act. Dealing permissions/ exemptions/modification cases, Preparation of Inspection & Enquiry reports and complaint enquiry reports, follow up of pending issues, Technical meetings, Examination work related to scrutiny of applications, conducting the junior and senior level examinations, Holding Tripartite and Bipartite meetings are the related jobs being undertaken by the Department.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491349) Visitor Counter : 108
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu