      Ministry of Tourism

      Paryatan Parv - A Call for Indian Diaspora – Dekho apna Desh
      Posted On: 10 OCT 2017 7:31PM by PIB Delhi

      

        The soul of ‘Paryatan Parv- DekhoApnaDesh’ is spreading its wings and enticing overseas Indian Community to come and see ‘Bharat- Apna Desh’, the land where their forefathers were born. Ministry of External Affairs through Indian Missions Abroad has formulated a well-structured plan to promote Indian tourism toPersons of Indian Origin residing abroad. The Ministry of Tourism is pitching Paryatan Parv to the Indian Community living overseas for creating a sustainable and mutually beneficial engagement with them. The Indian Overseas community estimated at over 25 million is spread in every major region of the world having presence in almost 189 countries across the globe. The Indian Diaspora forms a significant and influential group in their respective country of residence and would provide an ideal platform to expand the reach of the Incredible India brand.Pooling of resources and synergised efforts of all stakeholders would contribute significantly for increasing foreign tourist arrivals to the country with IndianOverseas communityserving as Ambassadors for Indian Tourism.


        Day 6 of the Paryatan Parv started with a noble cause, India Tourism Kolkata has organised a Local Sightseeing Tour for children from an Orphanage in Sealdah.


        Sirpur in Chhattisgarh witnessed a Cultural Evening, showcasing the rich heritage of the State with indigenous folk performances. A Familiarisation Tour of Tourist Spots of Chhattisgarh was arranged by Chhattisgarh TourismBoard for students of Indian origin settled overseas.


        Maharashtra Government has inaugurated guide training course in Mumbai, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Pune. District level cultural programmes have been organised in Aurangabad and Goa by Ministry of Youth Affairs (NYKS) .


        Various events have been organised by Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Culture and State Government of Uttar Pradesh in the land of Taj Mahal, Highlight of the event was Dastan-e-Amir Khusrau presented by Dr.Syeda Hameed, Ms. Zakia Zaheer & Ms.Rene Singh at Taj Khema Mound.


        State Government of Madhya Pradesh as part of the ParyatanParvhas organised Photography and Cooking competition at Shajapur, Handicraft Bazaar at Gwalior, Discussion and Elocution Competition at Dhar, Quiz Competition on the theme ‘Hamara Jabalpur, Hamari Pehchan and Tourism Awareness Rally and Painting Competition in Khajuraho.


        Delhi Tourism organised Indian Folk Dance Performances at Dilli Hat INA, the event will continue every day till 12 th October 2017. Dogri Food Festival has been organised at Hotel Jammu Ashok by ITDC , State Government of Uttarakhand organised Mussoorie Marathon, UP Government organized Swaranjali in Lucknow


        Ministry of DONER in partnership with State Governments and North East Tourism Development Council has promoted Paryatan Parv by organising various events of sensitisation programme.


        Other Central Ministries are also participating in Paryatan Parv by organizing various activities. The Railway Ministry has illuminated some of the major railway stations in the country. Under the Ministry of Civil Aviation, some of the major airports in the country have also been illuminated.


        The Online contests on MyGov platform for Dekho Apna Desh Photo Contest, Incredible India Quiz, Dekho Apna Desh Blog Contest have elicited tremendous response. Winners of the contests will receive attractive prizes


        *****


        Sanjay Kumar/Tourism/10.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505568) Visitor Counter : 150