      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Rajiv Kumar, Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog delivers 24th CVC lecture on the topic “New India @ 2022”.
      Posted On: 27 OCT 2017 2:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The 24 rd lecture of the “Lecture Series” organized by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC), was delivered by Dr. Rajiv Kumar, Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog, here yesterday on the topic “New India @ 2022”.


    In his lecture, Dr Rajiv Kumar spoke about many facets of India’s development, covering a broad historical perspective of our national development over time. He spoke of development as a mass movement, and discussed the three transformations that India is simultaneously going through – economic, social and political.


    The different stages of India’s transformation were explained in a historical perspective, each period being characterized by deepening mass participation corresponding to the phase of economic, social and political transformation. The period from 1857-1942 was the period of India’s freedom struggle, which culminated in our political independence in 1947. The period from 1947 to 2017 was the period of post-independence India, accompanied by corresponding economic, social and political transformations. These transformations would become more significant with increasing mass participation in future, each future period being explained as a point in time, viz., 2017 (Sankalp se Siddhi), 2022 (New India) and 2047 (Sarvashreshtha Bharat). The roadmap for future development was discussed in detail, with specific goals established for the various transformations envisaged, such as Poverty Free India, Dirt and Squalor Free India, Corruption Free India, Communalism Free India and Terrorism Free India.


    The lecture was followed by a lively question and answer session where the audience put several questions on issues of contemporary relevance to the distinguished speaker.


    This lecture was attended by full time and part time CVOs based in Delhi/NCR as well as CMDs, Directors and other officers of Government Ministries/Departments, Central Public Sector Enterprises, Nationalized Banks, and other Organizations. The webcast of the lecture may be viewed online and is available on the website of the Central Vigilance Commission www.cvc.nic.in .


    *******


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507262) Visitor Counter : 97
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil