      Ministry of Education

      Shri Upendra Kushwaha, MoS HRD inaugurates KVS Rashtriya Ekta Shivir
      Posted On: 31 OCT 2017 6:52PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for HRD Shri Upendra Kushwaha inaugurated the three-day KVS Rashtriya Ekta Shivir-Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat in New Delhi today. Speaking at the occasion MoS, HRD, Shri Upendra Kushwaha said that KVS students are full of talent and capable of taking India to new heights. He said that it was wonderful to see students of one states speaking languages of different states. But we awaits a time one people of one state will also feel the pain of other state. The new generation will bring this change in our society. He congratulated Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) for organizing such a vast cultural fest in the heart of Delhi.
    
    Ms. Rina Ray, Special Secretary, MHRD laid emphasis on imbibing the values of Sardar Patel. Appreciating the performance of KV Students she said that Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan really represents the concept of Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat.
    
    Commissioner, KVS Sh. Santosh Kumar Mall while welcoming the guests highlighted the key features of this unique programme. He informed that 1250 students from 25 KVS regions spread all over the country are participating in the event along with their 125 escort teachers. The most unique feature of this shivir is that the Students from one state of the country represent the cultural diversity of another state of the country. This programme represents the socio-economic aspects along with the art and culture of various states. The programme is open for public on all the three days.
    
    Additional Commissioner (Academics), KVS Sh. UN Khaware presented the vote of thanks. Additional Commissioner (Admin), KVS, Sh. GK Srivastava, Joint Commissioner (Acad) Dr. V. Vijayalakshmi, Joint Commissioner (Trg) Dr. Shachi Kant were among the officials present during the opening ceremony. Deputy Commissioner, Delhi Region Ms. Santosh Mirdha and her team played a crucial role in making the event successful.

    *****


    
    
    GG/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507639) Visitor Counter : 78