      Ministry of Defence

      Navika Sagar Parikrama - INSV Tarini Departs from Fremantle
      Posted On: 05 NOV 2017 12:10PM by PIB Delhi


    The Indian Naval Sailing Vessel (INSV) Tarini left Fremantle, Australia this morning (05 Nov 17) for its onwards journey to Lyttleton, New Zealand. INSV Tarini had arrived at Fremantle on 23 October 2017 after completion of first leg of its maiden voyage to circumnavigate the globe. This historic circumnavigation attempt by an all-women crew is being led by Lieutenant Commander Vartika Joshi, and the crew comprises Lieutenant Commanders Pratibha Jamwal, P Swathi, and Lieutenants S Vijaya Devi, B Aishwarya and Payal Gupta.
    
    The crew of INSV Tarini was officially welcomed to Western Australia (WA) by Tourism, Defence Issues and Citizenship and Multicultural Interests Minister Paul Papalia and Women's Interests Minister Simone McGurk on 1 November 2017. WA Ministers were accompanied by two Indian-origin members of WA Parliament, Mr Yaz Mubarakai and Mr Kevin Michel. Federal MPs from Western Australia, Madeleine King and Dr Anne Aly visited the vessel INSV Tarini.
    
    Chief of Royal Australian Navy Vice Admiral Tim Barrett also visited the vessel on 1 November to welcome the crew. He also handed over a personal message from Australian Minister for Defence Ms. Marise Payne for the crew. The crew had several engagements during its stay in Fremantle, including call-on meetings with Governor of Western Australia, Hon. Kerry Sanderson AC and Deputy Mayor of City of Fremantle Cr Ingrid Waltham. President of WA Legislative Council Hon Kate Doust also hosted the crew at WA Parliament for an interaction with female MPs from all major parties.
    
    The INSV Tarini crew had an opportunity to interact with a wide range of stakeholders during the welcome reception hosted by the Consulate on 28 October 2017, which was attended by about 100 distinguished guests, including members of WA Parliament, state officials, businessmen, academicians, consular corps, leaders from Indian community and media persons.
    
    The crew of INSV Tarini also had an opportunity to interact with strategic thinkers and academia during a presentation and reception event hosted by Perth US-Asia Centre, leading think tank focusing on geopolitical issues based in the University of Western Australia, on 31 October 2017. More than 200 students attended a presentation and interaction session with the crew at Perth Modern School on 31 October 2017.
    
    The crew also visited the scientific facilities at the Indian Ocean Marine Research Centre at University of Western Australia. They also had a chance to meet renowned Australian scientist & Australian of the Year 2017 Professor Alan Mackay-Sim, who is famous for his work on stem cell research. The crew also had a trip to few tourist places in Perth and Fremantle, including Rottnest Island.
    
    The visit of INSV Tarini to Fremantle was covered widely in Australian print and electronic media, and ethnic media.
    
    DKS/GY


    ******


    

    
    (Release ID: 1508275) Visitor Counter : 174