      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Jaane Bhi Do Yaaron team pays homage to Kundan Shah at IFFI Goa 2017
      Posted On: 23 NOV 2017 8:08PM by PIB Delhi

      One of the five best comedy Hindi films of all time, ‘Jaane Bhi Do Yaaron’ (1983) – featuring a plethora of seasoned actors including the late Om Puri, Naseeruddin Shah, Satish Shah, Satish Kaushik, Neena Gupta and Pankaj Kapoor was screened in the Homage/Tribute Section of the late filmmaker Kundan Shah and also popularly known for Nukkad series.

        The press conference was attended by internationally renowned film director Sudhir Mishra along with actors Satish Kaushik, Neena Gupta and writer-director Ranjit Kapoor who featured in the film and enthralled the crowd sharing memorable moments shooting the classic comedy.


        Sudhir Mishra told, “It’s strange that we are talking about Jaane Bhi Do Yaaron but Kundan is not here amongst us. The movie was his crazy idea. Satish and I were the youngest babies of the film crew. Ranjit Kapoor was the legend. We were known as Ranjit Kapoor’s friends. He was a cult director of theatre before we even ventured into the medium. Kundan inspired us to do what we could in Jaane Bhi Do Yaaron when it was made. We found ourselves as creative individuals through Jaane Bhi Do Yaaron.”


        Satish Kaushik added, “It’s a special day because we are here to pay tribute to a passionate filmmaker. I know him ever since I came to Mumbai in 1979 and then through the film institute days. He had a mind which was different from others. He was quirky, mad and passionate about cinema. The cinema in him was very polished though he never paid attention to the way he used to look, dress and converse. When I was having a conversation with Ranjit Kapoor at his place, Kundan Shah was also there and that’s when I got the offer to be the co-writer of the film. It was my good luck that I got the opportunity to work with him.”


        Ranjit Kapoor said, “Few days we had given a tribute to the film at NFDC in Mumbai and before that we did it for Om Puri as well. The tribute process for the movie will keep happening forever till the cast of Jaane Bhi Do Yaaron is alive. The movie was his directorial debut and mine as a writer and the association I share with Kundan is divine. He had a streak of madness in him.”


        The 48th Edition of IFFI will take place from the 20th to 28th of November, 2017 in the beach state of Goa. IFFI is India’s biggest and Asia’s oldest film festival, making it one of the most prestigious in the world.


        **********


        PIB-IFFI-2017/NO.19

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510668) Visitor Counter : 133