      Ministry of Defence

      Navika Sagar Parikrama - Tarini Enters Lyttelton
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2017 10:28AM by PIB Delhi


    INSV Tarini entered Lyttelton port (New Zealand) today during it’s maiden voyage to circumnavigate the globe. This is the first-ever Indian circumnavigation of the globe by an all-women crew. The vessel is skippered by Lieutenant Commander Vartika Joshi, and the crew comprises Lieutenant Commanders Pratibha Jamwal, P Swathi, and Lieutenants S Vijaya Devi, B Aishwarya and Payal Gupta.


    Smt Nirmala Sitharaman, Hon’ble Raksha Mantri had flagged-off INSV Tarini from Goa on 10 September 17. The vessel has covered 7800 Nautical miles from Goa, crossing the Equator on 25 September 17 and Cape Leeuwin on 09 November 17.


    The indigenously-built INSV Tarini is a 56-foot sailing vessel, which was inducted in the Indian Navy earlier this year, and showcases the ‘Make in India’ initiative on the International forum.


    The expedition titled ‘Navika Sagar Parikrama’, is in consonance with the National policy to empower women to attain their full potential. It also aims to showcase ‘Nari Shakti’ on the world platform and help revolutionise societal attitudes and mindset towards women in India by raising visibility of their participation in challenging environs.


    The vessel would return to Goa in April 2018, on completion of the voyage. The expedition is being covered in five legs, with stop-overs at 4 ports: Fremantle (Australia), Lyttleton (New Zealand), Port Stanley (Falklands), and Cape Town (South Africa). Presently, the vessel has covered two of the five legs of the voyage, with the first port halt at Fremantle (Australia) in October.


    The crew has also been collating and updating meteorological, ocean and wave data on a regular basis for accurate weather forecast by India Meteorological Department (IMD), as also monitoring marine pollution on the high seas. They would interact extensively with the local populace, especially children, during the port halt to promote Ocean sailing and the spirit of adventure.


    The vessel is likely to depart Lyttelton on 12 December 17.


    ******


    DKS/AC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511207) Visitor Counter : 312
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil